A TIACHMENT A -CONTRACT 
State Medica l Director and Occupational Medical Services for Maryland State Agencies 
THIS CONTRACT (the "Contract") is made this 3•• day of February, 2017 by and between 
PTN WorkPro Holdings LLC and the STATE OF MARYLAND, acting through the Department of 
Budget and Management. February 
In consideration of the promises and the covenants herein contained , the parties agree as follows: 
l. 	 Definitions 
In this Contract, the followi ng words have the meanings indicated: 
I.I 	 ''COMAR" means Code of Maryla nd Regu lations. 
1.2 	 "Contract Monitor" means the Department employee identified in Section 1.6 of the RFP as the 
Contract Monitor. 
1.3 	 "Contractor" means PTN WorkPro Holdings LLC d/b/a WORKPRO Occupational Health 
whose principal business address is200 Biddle Avenue, Suite 213, Newark. DE 19702 and 
whose principal office in Maryland is 50 I Fainnount Avenue , Suite 302, Towson , MD 
21286. 
1.4 	 "Department" means the Department of Budget and Management. 
1.5 	 "Guarantor " means PT Network LLC , d/b/a Pivot Physical Therapy. 
1.6 	 "Financial Proposal" means the Contractor's Financia l Proposal dated March 3, 20"16. 
1.7 	 "Procurement Officer" means the Department employee identified in Section 1.5 of the 
RFP as the Procurement Officer. 
1.8 	 "RFP" means the Request for Proposals for Statewide Medical Director and Occupational 
Medica l Services for Maryland State Agencies Solicitation # 05086400002, and any 
addenda thereto issued in writing by the State. 
1.9 	 "State" means the State of Mary land. 
1.10 	 ''Technical Proposal"means the Contractor's Technical Proposal dated March 3, 2016. 
2. 	 Scope of Contra ct 
2. 1 	 The Contractor shall provide deliverables, programs, goods, and services specific to the 
Contract for Statewide Medical Director and Occupational Medical Services awarded in 
accordance with Exhibits A-C listed in this section and incorporated as part of this Contracl 
If there is any conflict between this Contract and the Exhibits, the terms of the Contract shall 
govern. If there is any conflict among the Exhibits, the fol lowing order of precedence shall 
determine the prevailing provision: 
Exhibit A -The RFP 
Exhibit B -State Contract Affidavit, executed by the Contractor and dated June 21, 2016 
Exhibit C -The Proposa l (Technical and Financial) 2.2 	 The Procureme nt Officer may, at any time, by written order, make changes in the work within 
the general scope of the Contract or the RFP. No other order , state ment, or conduct of the 
Procurement Office r or any other person shall be treated as a change or entitle the Contractor 
to an equitable adjustment under this section. Except as otherwise provided in this Contract, 
if any change under this section causes an increase or decrease in the Contractor's cost of, or 
the time required for, the perfo 1111ance of any part of the work, whether or not changed by the 
order, an equitable adjustme nt in the Contract price shall be made and the Contract modified 
in writing according ly. The Con tractor must assert in writing its right to an ad justment under 
this section within thirty (30) days of receip t of written change order and shall include a 
written stateme nt setting forth the nature and cost of such claim. No claim by the Contractor 
shall be allowed ifasserted after final payment under this Contract. Failure to agree to an 
adjustmen t under this sectio n shall be a dispute under the Disputes clause. Nothing in this 
sectio n shall excuse the Contractor from proceeding with the Contract as changed. 
2.3 	 Whi le the Procurement Officer may, at any time, by writte n change order , make uni lateral 
changes in the work within the general scope ofthe Contract as provided in Section 2.2 
above, the Contract may be modified by mutual agreement of the parties, provided: (a) the 
modification is made in writing ; (b) all parties sign the modification; and (c) all approva ls by 
the required agencies as described in COMAR Title 21, are obtained. 
3. 	Period of Performan ce. 
3. I 	 The tem1 ofthis Contract begins on the date the Contract is signed by the Department 
following any required approvals of the Contract, including approval by the Board of Public 
Works, ifsuch approva l is required. The Contractor shall provide services unde r this Contract 
as of the Go-Live date contai ned in the written Notice to Proceed . From this Go-Live date, 
the Contract shall be for a period ofapproximately five years beginning on Apri l I, 2017 and 
ending on Marc h 3 I, 2022. 
3.2 	 Audit , confide ntiality, document retention, and indem nificatio n obligations under this 
Contract shall survive expiration or termination of the Contract 
4. 	 Considerati on and Payment 
4.1 In consideratio n ofthe satisfactory performa nce of the work set forth in this Contract, 
the Departme nt shall pay the Contractor in accordance with the terms of this Contrac t 
and at the prices quoted in the Financia l Proposal. Un less properly modified (see above 
Section 2.3), payment to the Contractor pursuant to this Contract, including the base tenn 
and any option exercised by the State, shall not exceed $ (). 
Contractor shall notify the Contract Monitor, in writi ng, at least sixty (60) days before 
payments reach the above specified amount. After notification by the Contractor, ifthe State 
fails to increase the Contract amount , the Contractor shall have no obligation to perform under 
this Contract after payments reach the stated amount; prov ided, however, that, prior to the 
stated amou nt being reached, the Contractor shall: (a) prompt ly consult with the State and 
work in good faith to estab lish a plan ofactio n to assure that every reasonable effort has been 
undertaken by the Contractor to comp lete State-defined critical work in progress prior to the 
date the stated amount will be reached ; and (b) when applicable secure databases, systems, 
platforms, and/or same will exist due to the existence of any such unfinished work. 
4.2 	 Payments to the Contractor shall be made no later than thirty (30) days after the Department's 
receipt of a proper invoice for services provided by the Contracto r, acceptance by the 
Department ofservices provided by the Contractor , and pursuant to the condition s outlined in 
Section 4 of this Contract. Each invoice for services rendered must include the Contractor 's 
Federal Tax Identification or Social Security Number for a Contractor who is an individual 
which is- · Charges for late payment of invoices other than as prescribed at Md. 
Code Ann., State Finance and Procurement Article,§ 15-104 are prohibited. Invoices shall be 
subm itted to the Contract Monitor . Electronic funds transfer shall be used by the State to pay 
Contractor pursuant to this Contract and any other State payments due Contract or unless the 
State Comptroller's Office grants Contractor an exemption. 
4.3 	 In addition to any other available remedies, if, in the opinio n of the Procurement Officer, the 
Contractor fails to perfom 1 in a satisfactory and timely manner, the Procurement Officer may 
refuse or limit approval ofany invoice for payment, and may cause payments to the 
Contractor to be reduced or withheld until such time as the Contractor meets perfonnance 
standard s as established by the Procurement Officer. 
4.4 	 Payment of an invoice by the Department is not evidence that services were rendered as 
required under this Contract. 
4.4 	 Contractor's eMaryland Marketplace vendor ID number is - · 
5. 	 Rights to Records 
5.1 	 The Contractor agrees that all documents and materials including, but not limited to, software, 
reports, drawings, stud ies, specificat ions, estimates, tests, maps, photographs, designs, 
graphics, mechanical, artwork, computations, and data prepared by the Contractor for 
purposes of th is Contract shall be the sole property ofthe State and shall be available to the 
State at any time. The State shall have the right to use the same without restriction and 
without compensation to the Contractor other than that specifica lly provided by this Contract. 
5.2 	 The Contractor agrees that at all times during the term ofU1is Contract and thereafter , works 
created as a deliverable under this Contract, and services performed unde r this Contract shall 
be "works made for hire" as that tenn is interpreted under U.S. copyright law. To the extent 
that any products created as a deliverable under this Contract are not works made for hire for 
the State, the Contract or hereby relinqui shes, transfers, and assigns to the State all of its rights, 
title, and interest (including all intellectual property rights) to all such products created under 
this Contract, and will cooperate reasonably with the State in effectuating and registering any 
necessary assignments. 
5.3 	 The Contractor shall report to the Contract Monitor, promptly and in written detail, each 
notice or claim of copyright infrin gement received by the Contractor with respect to all data 
delivered under this Contract. 
5.4 	 The Contractor shall not affix any restrictive markings upon any data, documentation, or 
other material s provided to the State hereunder and if such markings are affixed, the State 
sha ll have the right at any time to modify, remove, obliterate , or ignore such warnings. Upon tennination ofthe Contract, the Contractor, at its own expense, shall deliver any equipment, 
software or other property provided by the State to the place designated by the Procurement 
Officer. 
6. 	 Exclus ive Use 
The State shall have the exclusive right to use, duplicate, and disclose any data, infom1ation, 
documents , records, or results, in whole or in part, in any manner for any purpose whatsoever, that 
may be created or generated by the Contractor in connection with this Contra .ct. If any material, 
including software, is capab le of being copyrighted, the State shall be the copyright owner and 
Contractor may copy right materia l connected with this project only with the express written approva l 
of the State. 
7. 	 Patents , Copyrights, and lntellectua l Property 
7.1 	 If the Contractor furnis hes any design, device, material, process , or other item, which is 
covered by a patent, trademark or service mark, or copyright or which is proprietary to, or a 
trade secret of, another, the Contractor shall obtain the necessary pennission or license to 
permit the State to use such item or items. 
7.2 	 The Contracto r will defend or settle, at its own expe nse, any claim or suit against the State 
alleging that any such item furnished by the Contractor infringes any patent, trade mark, service 
mark, copyright, or trade secret. If a third party claims that a product infringes that party's 
patent, trademark , service mark, trade secret, or copyright, the Contractor will defend the State 
against that claim at Contractor's expense and will pay all damages, costs, and attorneys' fees 
that a court finally awards, provided the State: (a) promptly notifies the Contractor in writing 
of theclaim; and (b) allows Contractor to control and cooperates with Contractor in, the 
defense and any related settlement negotiations. TI1e obligations of this paragraph are in 
add ition to those stated in Section 7.3 below. 
7.3 	 If any products furnis hed by the Contractor become , or in the Contractor's opinion are likely 
to become, the subject of a claim of infringement , the Contracto r will, at its option and 
expense: (a) procure for the State the right to continu e using the applicable item; (b) replace 
the product with a non-infringing product substa ntially complying with the item's 
specifications; or (c) modify the item so that it becomes non-infringing and performs in a 
substantially . similar manner to the original item. 
8. 	 Confidential or Proprietary loformation and Documentati on 
8.1 Subject to the Maryland Public Information Act and any other applicable Jaws including, 
witho ut limitation, HIPAA , the HI-TECH ACT, and the Maryland Medical Records Act and the 
implementat ion of regulat ions promu lgated pursuant thereto, all confidential or proprietary infom1ation 
and documentation relating to either party (including witho ut limitation , any information or data stored 
within the Contractor's comp uter systems) shall be held in absolute confidence by the other party. 
Each party shall, however, be pern I itted to disclose relevant confidential infonnatio n to its officers, 
agents , and emp loyees to the extent that such disclosure is necessa .ry for the perfom1ance of their duties 
under this Contract, provided that the data may be collected, used, disclosed, stored, and disseminated 
only as provided by and consistent with the Jaw. The provision s of this section shall not apply to 
infonnation that: (a) is lawfully in the public domain; (b) has been independently developed by the 
other party without violation ofthis Contract; (c) was already in the possession ofsuch party; 
(d) was supp lied to such party by a third party lawfully in possession thereof and legally permitted to 
disclose in the information; or (e) which such party is required to disclose by law. 
8.2 	 This Section 8 shall survive expiration or tenn ination of this Contract. 9. Loss of Data 
In the event of loss of any State data or records where such loss is due to the intentional act or 
omission or negligence of the Contractor or any of its subcontractors or agents, the Contractor shall be 
responsible for recreating such lost data in the manner and on the schedule set by the Contract 
Monitor. The Contractor shall ensure that all data is backed up and recoverable by the Contractor. 
Contractor shall use its best efforts to assure that at no time shall any actions undertaken by the 
Contractor under this Contract (or any fai lures to act when Contractor has a duty ro act) damage or 
create any vulnerabi lities in data bases, systems, platforms, and/or applications with which the 
Contractor is working hereunder. 
10. Indemnification 
I0.1 The Contractor shall hold harmless and indemnify the State from and against any and al l 
losses, damages, claims, suits, actions, liabilities, and/or expenses, including, without 
limitation, attorneys' fees and disbursements of any character that arise fro m, are in 
connection with or are attributab le to the performance or nonperformance of the Contractor 
or its subcontractors under this Contract. 
I 0.2 This indemnification clause shall not be construed to me.an that the Contractor shall indemnify 
the State against liabi lity for any losses, damages, claims, suits, actions, liabilities, and/or 
expenses that are attributable to the sole negligence of the State or the State's employees. 
I 0.3 The State of Maryland has no obligation to provide legal counsel or defense to the Contractor 
or its subcontractors in the event that a suit, claim, or action ofany character is brought by 
any person not party to this Contract against the Contractor or its subcontractors as a result 
of or relating to the Contractor's performance under this Contract. 
I 0.4 The State has no obligation for the payment of any judgments or the settlement ofany 
claims against the Contractor or its subcontractors as a result ofor relating to the 
Contractor's performance under this Contract. 
I 0.5 The Contractor shall immediately notify the Procurement Officer ofany claim or suit made or 
filed against the Contractor or its subcontractors regarding any matter resulting from, or 
relating to, the Contractor's obligations under the Contract, and wi ll cooperate, assist, and 
consult with the State in the defense or investigation ofany claim, suit, or action made or fi led 
against the State as a result of, or relating to, the Contractor's perfom1ance under this 
Contract. 
I0.6 This Section IO shall survive tem1ination of this Contract. 
I1. Non-Hiring of Employees 
No official or employee of the State, as defined under Md. Code Ann., General Provisions Article, § 5­
10 I, whose duties as such official or employee include matters relating to or affecting the subject 
matter of this Contract, shall, during the pendency and tenn of this Contract and while serving as an 
official or employee of the State, become or be an employee of the Contractor or any entity that is a 
subcontractor on this Contract. 12. Disputes 
This Contract shall be subject to the provisions of Md. Code Ann., State Finance and Procurement 
Article, Title 15, Subtitle 2, and COMAR 21.10 (Administrative and Civil Remedies). Pending 
resolution ofa claim, the Contractor shall proceed diligently with the performance of the Contract in 
accordance with the Procurement Officer's decision. Unless a lesser period is provided by applicable 
statute, regulation, or the Contract, the Contractor must file a written notice ofclaim with the 
Procurement Officer within thirty (30) days after the basis for the claim is known or should have been 
known, whichever is earlier. Contemporaneously with or within thirty (30) days of the filing of a 
notice of claim, but no later than the date of final payment under the Contract, the Contractor must 
submit to the Procurement Officer its written claim containing the information specified in COMAR 
2 1.10.04.02. 
13. Maryland Law 
13.1 This Contract shall be construed, interpreted, and enforced according to the Jaws of the State of 
Maryland. 
13.2 The Md. Code Ann., Commercial Law Article, Title 22, Maryland Uniform Computer 
Informatio n Transactions Act, does not apply to this Contract or to any purchase order or 
Notice to Proceed issued under this Contract. 
13.3 Any and all references to the Maryland Code, Annotated contained in this Contract shall 
be construed to refer to such Code sections as are from time to time amended. 
14. Nondiscrimination in Employment 
The Contractor agrees: (a) not to discriminate in any manner against an employee or applicant for 
employment because of race, color, religion, creed, age, sex, marital status, national origin, sexual 
orientation, sexual identity, ancestry, or disability of a qualified individua l with a disability; (b) to 
include a provision similar to that contained in subsection (a), above, in any underlying subcontract 
except a subcontract for standard commercial supplies or raw materials; and (c) to post and to cause 
subcontractors to post in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment, 
notices setting forth the substance ofthis clause. 
15. Contingent Fee Prohibition 
The Contractor warrants that it has not employed or retained any person, partnership, corporation, or 
other entity, other than a bona fide employee, bona fide agent, bona fide salesperson, or commercial 
selling agency working for the business, to solicit or secure the Contract, and that the business has not 
paid or agreed to pay any person, partnership, corporation, or other entity. other than a bona fide 
employee, bona fide agent, bona fide salesperson, or commercial selling agency, any fee or any other 
consideration contingent on the making of this Contract 
16. Non-availability of Funding 
If the General Assembly fails to appropriate funds or if funds are not otherwise made available for 
continued performance for any fiscal period oflhis Contract succeeding the first fiscal period, this 
Contract shall be canceled automatically as ofthe beginning of the fiscal year for which funds were 
not appropriated or otherwise made available; provided, however, that this will not affect either the 
State's rights or the Contractor's rights under any termination clause in this Contract. The effect of 
tennination of the Contract hereunder wi II be to discharge both the Contractor and the State from future 
performance of the Contract, but not from their rights and obligations existing at the time of 
termination. The Contractor shall be reimbursed for the reasonable value ofany nonrecurring costs 
incurred but not amortized in the price of the Contract. The State shall notify the Contractor as soon 
as it has knowledge that funds may not be available for the continuation of this Contract for each 
succeeding fiscal period beyond the first. 
17. Termination for Cause 
If the Contractor fails to fulfill its obligations under this Contract properly and on time, or otherwise 
violates any provision of the Contract, the State may terminate the Contract by written notice to the 
Contractor. The notice shall specify the acts or omissions relied upon as cause for tennination. All 
finished or unfinished work provided by the Contractor shall, at the State's option, become the State's 
property. The State shall pay the Contractor fair and equitable compensation for satisfactory 
performance prior to receipt of notice of termination, less the amount of damages caused by the 
Contractor's breach. If the damages are more than the compensation payable to the Contractor, the 
Contractor will remain liable after termination and the State can affirmatively collect damages. 
Termination hereunder, including the termination of the rights and obligations of the parties, shall be 
governed by the provisions ofCOMAR 21.07.01.11 B. 
18. Termination for Convenience 
The performance of work under this Contract may be terminated by the State in accordance with this 
clause in whole, or from time to time in part, whenever the State shall determine that such 
termination is in the best interest of the State. The State will pay all reasonable costs associated with 
this Contract that the Contractor has incurred up to the date of termination, and all reasonable costs 
associated with termination of the Contract; provided, however, the Contractor shall not be 
reimbursed for any anticipatory profits that have not been earned up to the date of tem1 ination. 
Termination hereunder, including the detem1ination of the rights and obligations of the parties, shall 
be governed by the provision s of COMAR 21.07.0l.12A(2). 
19. Delays and Extensio ns ofTime 
The Contractor agrees to prosecute the work continuously and diligently and no charges or claims 
for damages shall be made by it for any delays, interruptions, interferences, or hindrances from 
any cause whatsoever during the progress ofany portion of the work specified in this Contract. 
Time extensions will be granted only for excusable delays that arise from unforeseeable causes beyond 
the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor, including but not restricted to, acts of 
God, acts of the public enemy, acts of the State in either its sovereign or contractual capacity, acts of 
another Contractor in the performance of a contract with the State, fires, noods, epidemics, quarantine 
restrictions, strikes, freight embargoes, or delays ofsubcontractors or suppliers arising from 
unforeseeable causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of either the Contractor or 
the subcontractors or suppliers. 
20. Suspension or Work 
The State unilaterally may order the Contractor in writing to suspend, delay, or interrupt all or any 
part of its performance for such period oftime as the Procurement Officer may determine to be 
appropriate for the convenience of the State. 21. Pre-Existing Regulations 
In accordance with the provisions of Md. Code Ann, State Finance and Procurement Article, § I1­
206, the regulations set forth in Title 21 of the Code of Maryland Regulation s (COMAR 21) in 
effect on the date of execution of this Contract are applicable to th is Contract. 
22. Financial Disclosure 
The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of Md. Code Ann., State Finance and Procurement 
Article,§ 13-221, which requires that every person that enters into contracts, leases, or other 
agreements with the State or its agencies during a calendar year under which the business is to 
receive in the aggregate, $100,000 or more, shall within thirty (30) days of the time when the 
aggregate value of these contracts, leases or other agreements reaches $ I00,000, fi le with the 
Secretary of the State certain specified information to include disclosure of beneficial ownership of 
the business. 
23. Political Contribution Disclosure 
The Contractor shall comply with Md. Code Ann., Election Law Article, T itle 14, which requires that 
every person that enters into a contract for a procurement with the State, a county, or a municipal 
corporation, or other political subdivision of the State, during a calendar year in which the person 
receives a contract with a governmental entity in the amount of $200,000 or more, shall, file with the 
State Board of Elections statements disclosing: (a) any contributio ns made during the reporting period 
to a candidate for elective office in any primary or general election; and (b) the name of each candidate 
to whom one or more contributions in a cumulative amount of $500 or more were made during the 
reporting period. The statement shall be filed with the State Board of Elections: (a) before execution 
ofa contract by the State, a county, a municipal corporation, or other political subdivision of the State, 
and shall cover the 24 months prior to when a contract was awarded; and (b) if the contribution is 
made after the execution ofa contract, then twice a year, throughout the contract term, on: (i) February 
5, to cover the six (6) month period ending January 31; and (ii) August 5, to cover the six (6) month 
period ending July 31. Additiona l information is available on the State Board of Elections website: 
http-//www.elections.state.md.us/campaign _finance/index.html. 
24. Documents Retention and Inspection Clause 
The Contractor and subcontractors shall retain and maintain all records and documents relating to this 
Contract for a period of five (5) years after final payment by the State hereunder or any applicable 
statute of limitations or federal retention requirements (such as HIPAA), whichever is longer, and 
shall make them available for inspection and audit by authorized representatives of the State, 
including the Procurement Officer or designee, at all reasonable times. All records related in any way 
to the Contract are to be retained for the entire time provided under this section. In the event ofany 
audit, the Contractor shall provide assistance to the State, without additional compensation, to 
identify, investigate, and reconcile any audit discrepancies and/or variances. This Section 24 shall 
survive expiration or tem1 ination of the Contract. 
25. Compliance with Laws 
The Contractor hereby represents and warrants that: 
25. l It is qualified to do business in the State and that it will take such action as, from time to 
time hereafter, may be necessary to remain so qualified; 25.2 	 It is not in arrears with respect to the payment ofany monies due and owing the State, or any 
department or unit thereof, includin g but not limited to the payment oftaxes and employee 
benefits, and that it shall not become so in arrears during the term of th is Contract ; 
25.3 	 It shall comply with all federal, State and local laws, regulations, and ordinances applicable 
to its activities and obligations under this Contract ; and 
25.4 	 It shall obta in, at its expense, all licenses, permits, insurance, and governmental approvals, if 
any, necessary to the performance of its obligatio ns under this Contract. 
26. 	 Cost and Price Certification 
By submitting cost or price information, the Contractor certifies to the best of its know ledge that 
the information submitted is accurate, comp lete, and current as of the date of its Bid/Proposal. 
The price under this Contract and any change order or modification here1mder , including profit or 
fee, shall be adjusted to exclude any significant price increases occurring because the Contractor 
furnished cost or price information which, as of the dare of its Bid/Proposal, was inaccurate, 
incomplet e, or not current. 
27. 	 Subcontractin g; Assignm ent 
The Contractor may not subcontract any portion of the services provided under this Contract without 
obtaining the prior written approval of the Procurement Officer, nor may the Contrac.tor assign this 
Contract or any of its rights or obligations hereunder, without the prior written approval of the 
Procurement Officer provided, however, that a contractor may assign monies receivable under a 
contract after due notice to the State. Any subco ntract s shall include such langua ge as may be 
required in various clauses contained within this Contract, exhibits, and attac hments. The Contract 
shall not be assigned until all approvals, documents, and affidavits are completed and properly 
registered. The State shall not be responsible for fulfillment of the Cont ractor's obligations to its 
subcontractors. 
28. 	 Liability 
28.1 	 For breach of this Contract, negligence, misrepresentation, or any other contract or tort 
claim, Contractor shall be liable as follows: 
a. 	 For infringement of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, and/or trade secrets. 
as provided in Section 7 of th is Contract; 
b. 	 Without limitation for damages for bodily injury (including death) and damage to 
real property and tangible personal property; and 
c. 	 For all other claims, damages, losses, costs, expenses, suits, or actions in any way related 
to this Contract, regardless of the form Contractor's liability for third party claims 
arising under Section IO of this Contract shall be unlimited if the State is not immune 
from liability for claims arising under Section I 0. 
29. 	 Parent Compan y Guarantee (IfApp licable ) 
PT Network LLC hereby guara ntees absolutely the full, prompt, and complete pe1formance by 
Contractor of all the terms, conditions and obligations contained in this Contract , as it may be 
amended from time to i time, includ ing any and all exhibits that are now or may become incorporated hereunto, and other 
obligations ofevery nature and kind that now or may in the future arise out of or in connection with 
this Contract, including any and all financial commitments, obligations, and liabilities. PT Network 
LLC may not transfer this absolute guaranty to any other person or entity without the prior express 
written approva l ofthe State, which approva l the State may grant, withhold, or qualify in its sole and 
absolute subjective discretion. PT Network LLC further agrees that ifthe State brings any claim, 
action, suit or proceeding against Contractor, PT Network LLC may be named as a party , in its 
capacity as Absolute Guara ntor. 
30. 	 Comme rcial Nondiscrimination 
30.1 	 As a condition ofenter ing into this Contract, Contractor represents and warrants that it will 
comply with the State's Commercial Nondiscrimination Policy, as described at Md. Code 
Ann., State Finance and Procurement Article, Title 19. As part of such compliance, 
Contractor may not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion , ancestry or national 
origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, sexual identity, or on the basis ofdisability 
or other unlawful forms ofdiscrimination in the solicitation, selection, hiring, or commercia l 
treatment of subcontractors, vendors, suppliers, or commercial customers, nor shall Contractor 
retaliate against any person for reporting instances ofsuch discrimination. Contractor shall 
provide equal opportunity for subcontractors, vendors, and suppliers to participate in all of its 
public sector and private sector subcontracting and supply opportunities, provided that this 
clause does not prohibit or limit lawfu l efforts to remedy the effects of marketplace 
disc.rimination that have occurred or are occurring in the marketplace. Contractor understands 
that a material violation ofthis clause shall be considered a material breach ofthis Contract 
and may result in termination of this Contract, disqualification of Contractor from 
participating in State contracts, or oilier sanctions. This clause is not enforceable by or for the 
benefit of, and creates no obligation to, any third party. 
30.2 	 The Contractor shall include the above Commercial Nondiscrimination clause, or similar 
clause approved by the Department , in al I subcontracts. 
30.3 	As a condition ofentering into this Contract, upon the request of the Commission on Civil 
Rights , and only after the fi ling of a complaint against Contractor under Md. Code Ann., State 
Finance and Procurement Article, Title 19, as amended from time to time, Contractor agrees 
to provide within sixty (60) days after the request a complete list of the names ofall 
subcontractors, vendors, and suppliers that Contractor has used in the past four (4) years on 
any of its contracts that were undertaken within the State of Maryland, including the total 
dollar amount paid by Contractor on each subcontract or supply contract. Contractor further 
agrees to cooperate in any investigation conducted by the State pursuant to the State's 
Commercial Nondiscrim ination Policy as set forth at Md. Code Ann., State Finance and 
Procurement Article, Title 19, and to provide any documents relevant to any investigation that 
are requested by the State. Contractor understands that violation of this clause is a material 
breach ofthis Contract and may result in contract termination, disqualification by the State 
from participating in State contracts, and other sanctions. 
31. 	 Prompt Pay Requirements 
31 . I 	If the Contractor withholds payment ofan undisputed amount to its subcontractor, the 
Department, at its option and in its sole discretion , may take one or more of the following 
actions: 
a. 	 Not process further payments to the contractor until payment to the subcontractor 
is verified; b. 	 Suspend all or some of the contract work without affecting the completion date(s) for 
the contract work; 
c. 	 Pay or cause payment of the undisputed amount to the subcontractor from monies 
otherwise due or that may become due; 
d. Place a payment for an undisputed amount in an interest -bearing escrow account; 
ore. Take other or further actions as appropriate to resolve the withheld payment. 
31.2 	 An "undisputed amount" means an amount owed by the Contractor to a subcontractor for 
which there is no good faith dispute. Such "undisputed amounts" include, without 
limitation: 
a. 	 Retainage which had been withheld and is, by the terms of the agreement between the 
Contractor and subcontractor, due to be distributed to the subcontractor; and 
b. 	 An amount withheld because of issues arising out ofan agreement or occurrence 
unrelated to the agreement under which the amount is withheld. 
31 	.3 An act, failure to act, or decision of a Procurement Officer or a representative of the 
Department, concerning a withheld payment between the Contractor and a subcontractor 
under th is provision, may not: 
a. 	 Affect the rights of the contracting parties under any other provision of law; 
b. 	 Be used as evidence on the merits ofa dispute between the Department and the 
contractor in any other proceeding; or 
c. 	 Result in liability against or prejudice the rights ofthe Department. 
31.4 	 The remedies enumerated above are in addition to those provided under COMAR 
21.11.03 . 13 with respect to subcontractors that have contracted pursuant to the Minority 
Business Enterprise (MBE) program. 
31.5 	 To ensure compliance with certified MBE subcontract participation goals, the Department 
may, consistent with COMAR 21.1 1.03.13, take the following measures: 
a. 	 Verify that the certified MBEs list.ed in the MBE participation schedule actually 
are performing work and receiving compensation as set forth in the MBE 
participation schedule. 
b. 	 This verification may include, as appropriate: 
I. 	 Inspecting any relevant records ofthe Contractor; 
II. 	 Inspecting the jobsite; and 
I I I. 	Interviewing subcontractors and workers. 
IV. 	 Verification shall include a review of: 
(a) 	 The Contractor's monthly report listing unpaid invoices over thirty (30) 
days old from certified MBE subcontractors and the reason for 
nonpayment; and 
(b) 	 The monthly report of each certified MBE subcontractor, which lists 
payments received from the Contractor in the preceding thirty (30) days and 
invoices for which the subcontractor has not been paid. 
c. 	 If the Department determines that the Contractor is not in compliance with certified MBE 
participation goals, then the Department will notify the Contractor in writing of its 
findings, and will require the Contractor to take appropriate corrective action. 
Corrective action may include, but is not limited to, requiring the Contractor to 
compensate the MBE for work perfom1ed as set forth in the MBE participation schedule. 
d. If the Department determines that the Contractor is in material noncompliance with MBE contract provisions and refuses or fai ls to take the corrective action that the 
Department requires, then the Department may: 
I. 	 Terminate the contract; 
11. 	 Refer the matter to the Office of the Atto rney General for appropriate action; or 
Ill. 	 Initiate any other specific remedy identified by the contract , including the 
contractual remed ies required by any applicab le laws, regulations, and directives 
regarding the payment of und isputed amounts. 
e. 	 Upon completion of the Contract, but before final payment or release of retainage or 
both, the Contractor shall submit a final report, in affidavit form under the penalty of 
perjury , ofall payme nts made to, or withhe ld from, MBE subcontractors. 
32. 	 Liquidated Damages 
32.1 	 The Contract requires the Contractor to make good faith efforts to comply with the Minority 
Business Enterprise ("MBE") Program and Contract provisions. The State and the Contractor 
acknowledge and agree that the State wi ll incur economic damages and losses, includ ing, but 
not limited to, loss of goodw ill, detrimental impact on economic development , and diversion 
ofinterna l staff resources, ifthe Contractor does not make good faith efforts to comply with 
the requirements ofthe MBE Program and pertinent MBE Contract provisions. The parties 
further acknowledge and agree that the damages the State might reasonably be anticipated to 
accme as a result ofsuch lack of compliance are difficult or impossib le to ascertain with 
precision and that liquidated damages represent a fair, reaso nable, and appropr iate estimation 
of damages. 
Upon a determinat ion by the State that the Contractor failed to make good faith efforts to 
comply with one or more of the specified MBE Program requirements or perti nent MBE 
Contract provisions and without the State being required to present any evidence ofthe amount 
or character ofactual damages sustained, the Contractor agrees to pay liquidated damages to 
the State at the rates set forth below. Such liquidated damages are intended to represent 
estimated actual damages and are not intended as a pena lty. The Contractor express ly agrees 
that the State may withhold payment on any invo ices as an offset against liquidated damages 
owed. 	 The 
Cont ractor further agrees that for each specified violation , the agreed-upon liquidated 
dan1ages are reasonably proximate to the loss the State is anticipated to incur as a result of 
each violation. 
32.1.1 	 Failure to subm it each monthly payment report in full compliance with COMAR 
21.11.03.138(3): $ 31.65 per day until the monthly report is subm itted as required. 
32.1.2 	 Failure to include in its agreements with MBE subcontractors a provision 
requiring submission of payment reports in full compliance with COMAR 
21. 11.03. 138(4): 
$112.10 per MBE subcontractor. 
32. 1.3 	Failure to comp ly with COMAR 21. 11.03.12 in terminating , canceling , or changing 
the scope of work/value of a contract with an MBE subcontractor and/or amendment 
of the MBE participation schedu le: the difference between the dollar value of the 
MBE participation commitment on the MBE participation schedu le for that specific 
MBE firm and the dollar value of the work performed by that MBE firm for the 
Contract. 
32.1.4 Failure to meet the Contractor's total MBE participation goal and subgoal commitments: the 
difference between the dollar value of the total MBE participation commitm ent on the MBE participat ion schedule and the MBE participation actuall y achieved. 
32.1.5 	 Failure to promptly pay all undisp uted amounts to a subcontractor in full compliance with the 
prompt payment provisions of the Contract: $100 per day until the undisputed amount due to the 
subcontractor is paid. 
32.2 	 Notwithstanding the assessment or availability of liquidated damages , the State reserves the 
right to terminate the Contract and to exercise any and all other rights or remedies which may 
be available under the Contract or which otherwise may be available at Jaw or in equity. 
33. 	 Living Wage 
lfa Contractor subject to the Living Wage Jaw fails to submit all records required under 
COMAR 21.11.10.05 to the Commissioner of Labor and Industry at the Department of Labor, 
Licensing and Regulation , the agency may withhold payment ofany invoice or retainage. The 
agency may require certification from the Commissioner on a quarterly basis that such records 
were properly submitted. 
34. 	 Contra ct Monitor and P rocurement Officer 
The work to be accomplished under this Contract shall be performed under the direction of the 
Contract Monitor. All matters relating to the interpreta .tion ofthis Contract shall be referred to the 
Procurement Officer for determination. 
35. 	 Notices 
All notices hereunder shall be in writing and either delivered personally or sent by certified or 
registered mail, postage prepaid, as follows: 
If to the State: Chris Hautala 
Procurement Officer 
45 Calvert St. Room 139 
Annapo lis, MD 2140 1 
lfto the Contractor: 	 Raymond Breswick 
Director of Operations 
200 Biddle Avenue 
Suite 213 
Newark, DE 19702 
36. Fede ral Depa rtment of Health and Human Serv ices (DHHS) Exclusion Requirements 
The Contractor agrees that it will comply with federal provisions (pursuant to§§ 1128 and 1156 of 
the Social Security Act and 42 C.F.R. I 00 I) that prohibit payments under certain federal health care 
programs to any individual or entity that is on the List of Excluded Individual s/Entities maintained by 
DHHS. By executing this contract, the Contractor affirmatively declares that neither it nor any 
employee is, to the best of its know ledge, subject to exclusion. The Contractor agrees , further , during 
the term ofthis contract, to check the List of Excluded Individuals/ Entities prior to hiring or assigning 
individuals to work on this Contract, and to notify the Department immediate ly ofany identification 
of the Contractor or an individual employee as excluded , and of any DHHS action or proposed action 
to exclude the Contractor or any Contractor employee. 36. 	Compliance with Federal H1PAA and State Confidentialit y Law 
36.1 	 The Contractor acknow ledges its duty to beco me familiar with and comp ly, to the extent 
applicable, with all requirements of the federa l Health Insurance Portabi lity and 
Accountabi lity Act (HlPAA), 42 U.S.C. § 1320d et seq., and implementing regulations 
including 45 C.P.R. Parts 160 and 164. The Contractor also agrees to comp ly with the 
Maryland Confidentia lity of Medica l Records Act (MCMRA) , Md. Code Ann. Health­
General§§ 4-30I et seq. This obligatio n includes: 
(a) 	As necessary, adhering to the privacy and security requirements for protected 
health in formation and medical records under HIPAA and MCMRA and making 
the transmissio n ofall electron ic infonnation compatible with the HlPAA 
requirements; 
(b) 	 Providing training and informat ion to employees regard ing confidentiality obligations 
as to health and financial information and securing acknowledgeme nt of these 
obligations from employees to be involved in the contract; and 
(c) 	 Otherwise providing good informatio n manageme nt practices regarding all 
health information and medical records. 
36.2 	 Based on the deter mination by the Department that the functions to be performed in 
accordance with the scope of work set forth in the solicitation constitute business associate 
functions as defined in HIPAA, the selected Bidder/Offeror shall execute a business 
associate agree ment as required by HlPAA regulations at 45 C.P.R. 164.501 and in the form 
as required by the Department. 
36.3 	 Protected Health lnfom1ation as defined in the HlPAA regulations at 45 C.F.R. 160.103 and 
164.50 I, means infonnation transmitted as defined in the regu lations , that is individually 
ident ifiable; that is created or received by a healthcare provider, health plan, public health 
authority , employer, life insurer, school or university , or healthcare clearinghouse; and that is 
related to the past, present, or future physica l or mental health or condition ofan individual, to 
the prov ision of healt hcare to an individua l, or to the past, present, or future payme nt for the 
provision of healthcare to an individual. The definition excludes certain education records 
as well as employment records held by a covered entity in its role as emp loyer. 
37. 	Hiring Agreement 
The Contractor agrees to execute and comp ly with the enclosed Maryland Department of Human 
Resources (OHR) Hiring Agreement (Attac hment 0). The Hiring Agreement is to be executed by 
the Bidder /Offeror and delivered to the Procure ment Officer within ten ( I 0) Business Days following 
receipt ofnotice by the Bidder/Offeror that it is being recommended for contract award. The Hiring 
Agreement wi II become effective concurrently with the award of the contract. 
The Hiring Agreement provides that the Contracto r and DHR wi ll work cooperatively to promote 
hiring by the Contractor ofqualified individuals for job openings resulti ng from this procureme nt, in 
accordance with Md. Code Ann., State Finance and Procurement Article §13-224. 38. 	 Limited English Proficienc y 
The Contractor shall provide equal access to public services to individuals with limited English proficiency 
in comp liance with Md. Code Ann., State Government Article,§§ 10-1101 et seq., and Policy Guidance 
issued by the Office ofCivil Rights, Department of Health and Human Services, and DHMH Policy 
02.06.07. 
39. 	 Miscella neous 
39.I 	Any provision of this Contract which contemp lates performance or observance subsequent to any 
termination or expiration ofthis Contract shall survive tenninatio n or expiration ofthis Contract 
and continue in full force and effect. 
39.2 	 If any term contai ned in this Contract is held or finally determined to be invalid , illegal, or 
unenforceab le in any respect , in whole or in part, such term shall be severed from this Contract, 
and the remaini ng terms contained herein shall continue in full force and effect, and shall in no 
way be affected , prejudiced, or disturbed thereby. 
IN \VITNE SS THEREOF , the parties have executed this Contract as ofthe date hereinabove set 
forth. 
STATE OF MARYLAND DEPARTMENT 
OF BUDGET & MANAGEMENT CONTRACTOR 
By: STEVEN BERGER 
Date: 6/21/16 By: David R. Brinkley , Secre tary, Dept. of 
Budget & Management 
Or designee: 
Approved for fonn and legal sufficiency 
this _2_ dayof _ February _, 2017_ . 
Assistant Attorney General APPROVED BY BPW: _ Jan. 25 2017 
(BPW Item #2-S-DBM) 