Page 1 of 2 
 CENTRAL ELECTRICITY RE GULATORY COMMISSION 
NEW DELHI 
 Coram:  Dr. Pramod Deo, Chairperson                Shri S.Jayaraman, Member                Shri V.S.Verma, Member                Shri M.Deena Dayalan, Member   
No. L-1/44/2010-CERC           Date of Order: 29.4.2011 
 
In the matter of  
      Approval of Transmission Service Agreement,  Revenue Sharing Agreement, Billing, 
Collection and Disbursement Procedure under  Central Electricity Regulatory Commission 
(Sharing of Transmission Charge s and Losses), Regulations, 2010. 
 
And  In the matter of   
Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd. (PGCIL)     …….. Respondent 
 
 
ORDER 
 
In accordance with the provisions of Chap ters 5 and 6 of the Central Electricity 
Regulatory Commission (Sharing of  Inter-State Transmission Charges and Losses) Regulations, 
2010 (hereinafter “Sharing Regulati ons”), Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd. (PGCIL) in its 
capacity as the Central Transmission Utility has submitted the draft Transmission Service 
Agreement, Revenue Sharing Agreement and B illing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure 
after taking into consideration the comments r eceived from the stake holders upto 3.12.2010 vide 
its letter No. C/01/Tr.Sh dated 31.12.2010.  Page 2 of 2 
 2. The Commission after detailed examinati on of the provisions of the above noted 
documents hereby accord approval as per the Annexures appended to this order. 
 (i) Transmission Service Agreement (Annexure-I) 
(ii) Revenue Sharing Agreement (Annexure-II)  (iii) Billing, Collection and Disbur sement Procedure (Annexure-III)  
 3. The CTU is directed to give wide publicity to these documents on their website.  CTU is 
further directed to take necessary action for getting the Transmission Service Agreement and 
Revenue Sharing Agreement signed by the concerned parties at the earliest.   
  
Sd/‐      Sd/‐       Sd/‐      Sd/‐ 
(M.DEENA DAYALAN) 
     MEMBER  (V.S.VERMA) 
      MEMBER 
  (S.JAYARAMAN) 
MEMBER 
  (Dr. PRAMOD DEO) 
    CHAIRPERSON  
 
 
 
  
 
MODEL TRANSMISSION SERVICE 
AGREEMENT  Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 2 INDEX  
 
S.No.    Contents                                                                        Page No.  
 
1. Definitions and Interpretations       4 
2. Parties to the Agreement        10 
3. Effectiveness of the Agreement       11 
4. Description of ISTS         12 
5. Operation and maintenance of the ISTS Schemes     13 
6. Availability of the ISTS Scheme       13 
7. Declaration and approval of Contracted Capacity at each node  
            or aggregation of nodes in the ISTS for each Designated IST S 
 Customer  (DIC)         13 
8. Sharing of Transmission Charges       14 
9. Sharing of other charges        14 
10. Transmission Losses         15 
11. Metering and Accounting        15 
12. Billing, Collection and Disbursement  of Transmission  Charges   16 
13. Disbursement by CTU to IST S Licensees      17 
14. Force Majeure          17 
15. Change in Law         21 
16. Event of Default and Termination       22 
17. Assignments and Charges        27 
18. Governing Law and Dispute Resolution      28 
19. Representations and Warranties       30 
20. Schedule I          34 
21. Schedule II         36 
22. Annexure A          38 
 Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 3  
 
 
 
 
 
AGREEMENT  
 
 
This Agreement is made on this [___] day of [___] of [20 1_] by and between the persons 
whose names and registered offices are set out in Schedule 1 including their successors 
and permitted assigns  
WHEREAS  
 
A. The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) in exercise of the powers 
conferred under section 178 read with Part V of the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 
2003), has issued regulations for Sharing of Inter State Transmission Charges and 
Losses i n June, 2010  (hereinafter referred to as “ Sharing  Regulations ”), pursuant 
to which the Central Transmission Utility (CTU)  is enter ing into this 
Transmission Service Agreement  (TSA) with  all the ISTS Licensees , Deemed 
ISTS Licensees  , other non -ISTS Licen sees whose assets have been certified as 
being used for interstate transmission by the  RPCs.  and the Designated ISTS 
Customers (DICs) to govern the provision of inter-State transmission services  
including sharing of transmission charges and losses amongst the DICs , and 
disburs ing the transmission charges collected by the CTU  to respective IS TS 
Licensee s and other non -ISTS Licensees  as per the Revenue Sharing Agreement 
(RSA) ; Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 4 B. This Transmission Service Agreement shall be the Model Transmission Service 
Agreem ent and shall mandatorily apply to all the DICs and ISTS Licensees . 
Signing of this  Transmission Service Agreement shall not be a pre -condition for 
construction of new network elements by the CTU and ISTS Licensees, where  
such network construction is under taken after due approval of the   Commission ; 
C. This Transmission Service Agreement ma y be amended from time to time by the 
parties to the said agreement consistent with the provisions of the Sharing 
Regulations  or as may be directed by  the Commission from t ime to time;  
D. The development of an ISTS Scheme including any scheme  which  is under 
construction would continue to be governed in accordance with the 
Indemnification Agreement or Bulk Power Transmission Agreement or 
Transmission Service Agreement or any suc h agreement, as entered into between 
the concerned ISTS Licensee and the concerned DIC (s)( erstwhile beneficiary)  to 
the extent relevant to the development, construction and commissioning o f the 
elements referred therein  till such time the said element is for commercial 
operation  and actually  brought into the operations, post which the terms and 
conditions of this TSA would come into force;   
E. The persons listed in Schedule  - I are parties to this Transmission Service 
Agreement . Any new DIC or ISTS Licensee,  for the purpose of availing or 
providing inter -State transmission services, as the case may be, shall enter into a 
Supplementary Agreement  (as per Annexure  A) pursuant to this Transmission 
Service Agreement , thereby binding itself to this Agreement ;  
F. All the invoices pertaining to provision of ISTS services for the period up to the 
Effective Date (including any arrears thereof) would be raised and realized 
directly by the ISTS Licensee from its beneficiaries , as per their earlier 
arrangements . Any fund ari sing out of various indemnification  or Liquidated 
damages  provisions contained in  existing agreement such as TSA for 
Competitive bidding projects, BPTA with LTA customers, Indemnification 
agreement  between generator and CTU etc prior to Commercial Date  of 
Operation(COD) shall not be covered in this agreement  and would continue to be 
settled among parties in terms of those agreement s. Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 5 Articles  
1.0 Definitions and Interpretations  
1.1 Definitions  
 
Unless the context otherwise  requires t he words/  expressions when used in this 
Agreement shall have the respective meanings as specified below:  
“Act” means the Ele ctricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003)  and any subsequent amendment 
made  thereto ; 
Application Period ”, “Approved Injection” , “Approved Additional Medium Term 
Injection” , “Approved Short Term Injection” , “Approved Withdrawal” , “Approved 
Additional Medium Term Withdrawal” , “Approved Short Term Withdrawal” , 
“Deemed Inter State Transmission System” or “Deemed ISTS” , “Designated ISTS 
Customers” or “DICs” , “Grid Code” “Implementing Agency” , “Inter-State 
Generating Station ”, “ Loss Allocation Factor”, “Point of Connection (PoC) 
Charging Method”,  “Point of Connection Transmission Charges” or “PoC 
Charges”, and “Yearly Transmission Charge” or “YTC” shall have the meaning,  as 
defined in the Sharing Regulations ; and any amendment s made thereof;  
“Availability ” mean s the availability of the transmission system  calculated in accordance 
with CERC (Terms and Conditions of Tariff) Regulations , 2009 as amended  from time to 
time an d any subsequent enactment thereof.   
“CEA” mean s the Central Electricity Authority constituted under Section 70 of the 
Electricity Act , 2003 ;  
“CERC” or “Commission” mean s the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission 
constituted under Section -76 of the El ectricity Act, 2003;  
“Central Transmission Utility"  or “CTU”  mean s the utility notified by the Central 
Government under Section  38 of the Electricity Act, 2003;  Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 6 “Change in law” shall have the mean ing as ascribed in  Article  14 of this Agreement ; 
“Competent  Court of Law” mean s the Supreme Court or any High Court, or any 
tribunal or any similar judicial or quasi -judicial body in India adjudicate upon issues 
arising out of the implementation of the agreement  ; 
“Consultation Period" mean s the period of sixty (6 0) days or such longer period as the 
concerned DIC and CTU or the concerned ISTS Licensee and CTU, depending upon the 
case, may agree, commencing from the date of issue of notice, as provided in Article  16.0 
of this Agreement, for consultation to mitigate the consequence of the relevant event 
having regard to all the circumstances;  
“Date of commercial operation”  or “COD”  shall have the meaning  as defined in 
Regulation 3(12) of the CERC (Terms and Conditions of T ariff) Regulations, 2009 and 
amended from time to time and any subsequent enactment thereof  ; 
“Due Date ” means , in relation to any bill the thirtieth day from the date which such bill is 
raised and published on the website of CTU for payment by the DIC;  
“Effective Date ” shall  have the meaning as ascribed thereto in Article 3 of this 
Agreement ; 
“Element"  mean s each Transmission Line or each circuit of the Transmission Lines 
(where there are more than one circuit) or each bay of Sub -station or switching sta tion or 
HVDC terminal or inverter station including ICTs, Reactors, SVC, FSC etc. forming part 
of the ISTS , which is owned, operated and maintained by the concerned ISTS Licensee ;  
“Financing Agreements" mean s the agreements pursuant to which the concerned  
ISTS Licensee is to finance its part of the ISTS including the loan agreements, 
security documents, notes, indentures, security agreements, letters of credit and other 
documents, as may be amended, modified, or replaced from time to time, but without 
in anyway increasing the liabilities of the DICs;  
“Force Majeure ” and “Force Majeure Event ” shall have the meaning  as assigned  
in Article  14.0 of this agreement;   Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 7   
 
“Indian Governmental Instrumentality ” mean s Government of India, Government 
of any State in I ndia or any Ministry , Department , Board , Authority , Agency , 
Corporation , Commission under the direct or indirect control of Government of India 
or any State Government or both, any political sub -division of any of them including 
any court or Appropriate Co mmission or Tribunal or Judicial or quasi -Judicial body 
in India  but excluding Transmission Service Provider and DIC ;  
 “Letter of Credit" or "LC" mean s a confirmed  unconditional, irrevocable,  
revolving Letter of Credit opened by a DIC in favour of the CTU  with any scheduled 
bank;  
“Lenders" means the banks, financial institutions, multilateral funding agencies, non 
banking financial companies registered with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) ; 
insurance companies which are registered with Insurance Regulatory  and 
Development Authority (IRDA); pension funds  regulated by Pension Fund 
Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA); mutual funds  registered with 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) , etc., including their successors and 
assigns, who have agre ed on or before COD of the concerned Element to provide the 
concerned ISTS Licensee with senior debt financing , and any successor banks or 
financial institutions to whom their interests under the Financing Agreements may be 
transferred or assigned;  
Provid ed that, such assignment or transfer shall not relieve the concerned ISTS Licensee 
of its obligations to the DICs under this Agreement in any manner and shall also does not 
lead to an increase in the liability of any of the DICs ;  
“Lenders Representative" mean s the person notified by the Lenders in writing as 
being the representative of the Lenders and such person may from time to time be 
replaced by the Lenders pursuant to the Financing Agreements by written notice to the  
concerned ISTS Licensee ;  Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 8 “Monthly  Transmission Charge ” means the transmission charges (inclusive of  
incentives) payable for each calendar month as determined in accordance with the CERC 
(Terms and  Conditions of Tariff ) Regulations , 2009 as amended from time to time and 
subsequent amendmen t thereof  or the transmission charges arrieved  through competitive 
bidding  as adopted by the Appropriate Commission  under Section 63 of the Act ; 
“Party ” shall mean a signatory to this Agreement, which shall be CTU or a DIC or an 
ISTS Licensee, and " Parties " shall mean a joint reference to all the signatories to this 
Agreement, which shall be CTU, all the DICs and all the ISTS Licensee s; 
 “Prudent Utility Practices ” mean the practices, methods and standards that are 
generally accepted internationally from ti me to time by electric transmission utilities for 
the purpose of ensuring the safe, efficient and economic design, construction,  
commissioning, operation, repair and maintenance of any part of the transmission system 
and which practices, methods and standa rds shall be adjusted as necessary, to take 
account of:  
a. operation, repair and maintenance guidelines given by the manufacturers,  
b. the requirements of Law, and  
c. the physical conditions at the Site  
d. the safety of operating personnel and human bein gs 
  
“Site” in relation to a substation, switching station or HVDC terminal or inverter 
station, mean s the land and other places upon which such station / terminal is 
established;  
“Transmission Service Agreement ” or “this Agreement ” or “TSA ” means this 
agreement together with the Schedules,  Annexure , and Documents referred to  herein , as  
amended or modified from time to time;  
“Working Day ”  means any day except Saturday, Sunday and statutory holiday . 
Words and expressions used in this Agreement and not d efined herein but defined  Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 9 in the Act or Regulations made by the Commission, shall have the meanings assigned  to 
them respectively in the Act, and Regulations made by the Commission from time to time  
and General Clause Act failing which it shall bear the or dinary English meaning .  
1.2 Interpretations  
Save where the contrary is indicated, any reference in this Agreement to:                             
“Agreement ” shall be construed as including a reference to its Schedules, Annexures and 
Documents ; 
“Rupee ”, “Rupees ” and “
”denote s lawful currency of India;  
“Crore ” mean s a reference to ten million (10,000,000) and a “Lakh ” mean s a reference 
to one tenth of a million (1,00,000);  
“encumbrance ”  means  a reference to a mortgage, charge, pledge, lien or other 
encumbrance securing any obligati on of any person or any other type of preferential 
arrangement (including, without limitation, title transfer and retention arrangements) 
having a similar effect;  
 “indebtedness ”  means  to include any obligation (whether incurred as principal or 
surety) fo r the payment or repayment of money, whether present or future, actual or 
contingent;  
“person ”  shall have the same meaning as defined in Section 2 (49) of the Act ; 
“winding -up”, “dissolution ” , “insolvency ” , or “reorganization ” shall have the same 
meanin g as defined in the Companies Act, 1956 ; 
 
1.2.1 Words importing the singular shall include the plural and vice versa.  
1.2.2 This Agreement itself or any other agreement or document shall be construed as a 
reference to this or to such other agreement or document as it  may have been, or 
may from time to time be, amended, varied, novated, replaced or supplemented.  
1.2.3 A Law shall be construed as a reference to such Law including its amendments or 
re-enactments from time to time.  Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 10 1.2.4 A time of day shall, save as otherwise provide d in any agreement or document be 
construed as a reference to Indian Standard Time.  
1.2.5 Different parts of this Agreement are to be taken as mutually explanatory and 
supplementary to each other and if there is any inconsistency between or among 
the parts of th is Agreement, they shall be interpreted in a harmonious manner so as 
to give effect to each part.  
1.2.6 The tables of contents and any headings or sub -headings in this Agreement have 
been inserted for ease of reference only and shall not affect the interpretatio n of 
this Agreement.  
1.2.7 Any interest payable under this Agreement shall accrue from day to day and be 
calculated on the basis of a year of three hundred and sixty five (365) days.  
1.2.8 The words “hereof” or “herein”, if and when used in this Agreement shall mean a  
reference to this Agreement.  
 
2.0 Parties to the Agreement  
2.1 Existing Designated ISTS Customers (DICs) & ISTS Licensees  
2.1.1 The DICs and ISTS Licensees , as mentioned in Schedule  - I, shall enter into this 
Agreement  and bind themselves to the terms of this Agreeme nt as on the date of 
Sharing Regulations  coming into force.   
2.1.2 In the event of any conflict between the existing Bulk Power Transmission 
Agreements (BPTA) or Transmission Service A greement (TSA)  and this 
Agreement , the terms of this Agreement shall supersede , as far as the sharing of 
transmission charges are concerned . 
2.1.3 An ISGS who is not a signatory  to  a  BPTA  or  TSA  too shall enter into this 
Agreement and bind itself to the terms of this Agreement  
2.1.4 Non-ISTS Licensees whose assets have  been certified as  being used  for inter -Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 11 State  transmission by the RPCs.  
2.2 New Designated ISTS Customers (DICs) & ISTS Licensees  
2.2.1 This Agreement shall  be signed by all new DICs intending to connect to and/or 
use the ISTS.  
2.2.2 This Agreement shall  be  signed  by all new ISTS License es intending to provide 
ISTS services and to develop and maintain any part of the ISTS network.  
2.2.3 Any new DIC or ISTS Licensee shall become a party to this Agreement subject to 
and in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement by execution of 
Suppleme ntary  Agreement , as annexed at Annexure - A, by such DIC or ISTS 
Licensee and the CTU.  
2.2.4 Each Party hereby  irrevocably and unconditionally authorizes  CTU to execute on  
behalf of such Party any Supplementary  Agreement duly executed by the new 
DIC or ISTS Lice nsee, as the case may be, and to thereby admit the new DIC or 
ISTS Licensee, as the case may be, as a Party to this Agreement.  Agreement s as 
such executed , shall be deemed to have been signed by all the existing parties of 
the TSA. A copy of such Supplemen tary Agreement shall be sent by the CTU to 
all the ISTS Licensees and DICs.  
2.2.5 Upon execution of the Supplementary  Agreement by both  CTU and the new DIC 
or ISTS Licensee in accordance with Article  2.2.4  of this Ag reement , the new 
DIC or ISTS Licensee shall become a Party  to this Agreement . 
 2.3 Owners of Deemed ISTS shall be considered deemed signatories to this 
Agreement and therefore all such rights and obligations, as applicable to ISTS 
Licensees shall be applic able to them mutatis mutandis.  
 
3.0 Effectiveness of the Agreement  
3.1  For the existing DICs and ISTS Licensees, this Agreement shall be effective from 
the date , as notified  under  Sharing Regulations  or  as notified by the Commission .  Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 12 3.2 Any new DICs or new ISTS Li censees  shall be Party to this Agreement from the  
date of signing of the Supplementary  Agreement, as executed between the CTU 
and the new DIC or ISTS Licensee, as the case may be.  
3.3 For the  owners of RPC certified lines , this Agreement shall be effective fr om the 
date of such approval by RPC and inclusion of these assets in the calculation of 
Point of Connection ( PoC) charges . 
3.4 From the Effective Date, each Party undertakes to each other Party to comply 
with and to perform its obligations in ac cordance with a nd subject to this 
Agreement .  
 
4.0 Description of inter -State Transmission System (ISTS)   
4.1 Existing ISTS  
4.1.1 The list of ISTS presently owned, operated and maintained by ISTS Licensees  in 
the country is detailed in  Schedule  - II.  
4.2 Deemed ISTS  
4.2.1 The provisions of this Agreement shall be applicable to Deemed ISTS, as detailed 
in Schedule - II. 
4.2.2  Any additions/  deletions to the existing list as certified by the RPCs  and approved 
by the Commission shall be intimated to the DICs by the Regional Power 
Committee ( RPC ). Such modifications shall form part of Schedule - II of this 
Agreement and shall be governed by the terms and conditions contained herein.    
4.3 New ISTS Schemes  
4.3.1 New ISTS Schemes shall be as identified in consultation with the stakeholders, by 
CEA and CTU.  
4.3.2 Any element that may be added to the ISTS detailed in Article 4.1.1 and declared Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 13 for commercial operation by the concerned ISTS Licensee will be intimated to the 
DICs by the ISTS Licensee or the CTU, as and when these are declared under 
commercial oper ation. Such addition shall form a part of Schedule - II of this 
Agreement and shall be governed by the terms and conditions as contained herein . 
4.3.3 CTU shall notify all the ISTS Licensees and the DICs, as and when such  element , 
as mentioned in Article 4.3.2  comes into operation .  
 
5.0 Operation and Maintenance of the ISTS  
5.1 Operation and Maintenance of the ISTS  
5.1.1 The ISTS Licensee s shall be responsible for ensuring that the ISTS is operated 
and maintained in accorda nce with the  regulations made by the Commission and 
CEA from time to time and the provisions of  the Act . 
 
6.0 Availability of the ISTS Scheme  
6.1 Calculation of Availability  of the ISTS Scheme / Element :  
The c alculation of Availability for the elements and for t he ISTS Scheme , as the 
case may be, shall be as per the CERC (Terms and Conditions of Tariff) 
Regulations , 2009 as may be amended from time to time and any subsequent 
enactment thereof .  
6.2 The Target Availability of the ISTS Scheme shall be as per the norms mentioned 
in CERC (Terms and Conditions of Tariff ) Regulations, 2009 as amended from 
time to time and any subsequent enactment thereof.  
 
7.0 Declaration and Approval of Contracted Capacity at each node or 
aggregation of nodes in the ISTS for each Designated IS TS Customer (DIC)  
7.1 The declaration and approval of the contracted capacity at each node or 
aggregation of the nodes in the ISTS for each DIC shall be as per the Sharing 
Regulations.  Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 14 8.0 Sharing of Transmission Charges  
8.1 The methodology for PoC charges calcul ation shall be as per Sharing Regulations , 
and any subsequent amendment  made thereto . 
8.2 All the DICs agree to pay the PoC charges as calculated by the Implementing 
Agency.  
8.3  Point of Connection ( PoC) Charges for Long Term  Access , Medium Term 
Open Access and Short Term Open Access  
8.2.1  There shall be no differentiation in PoC charges, as determined by the 
Implementing Agency for the Application Period, among the long -term access , 
medium -term open access  and short -term open  access to the ISTS.  
8.3 Computation of PoC Charges  
8.3.1 The computation of PoC charges shall be as per the Sharing Regulations and any 
subsequent amendment made thereto.  
 
9.0 Sharing of Other  Charges   
9.1 Other charges such as license fee, petition filing fee, publication expenses, ULDC 
charges for non-POSOCO assets, charges for communication systems, 
EMSS/SCADA charges etc. which are approved by the Commission shall be 
billed separately by CTU and paid by the respective beneficiaries/DICs as per the 
terms and conditions specified in the relevant not ification(s)/Order(s) issued by 
the Commission from time to time.  
9.2 Any other charges arising out of any adjustments  (other than those covered under 
bill 3), reconciliation etc. shall be billed by CTU and paid to by the respective 
DICs. The bills shall b e raised as and when required.  
 
 Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 15 10.0 Transmission Losses  
10.1 The total transmission losses of the ISTS shall be allocated amongst the DICs in 
accordance with the Sharing Regulations  and any subsequent amendment s made  
thereto . 
10.2 All the DICs agree to share the trans mission losses as calculated by the 
Implementing Agency.  
 
11.0 Metering and Accounting  
11.1 Metering  
11.1.1  The installation, operation, maintenance and testing of the Special Energy Meters 
(SEMs)  shall be in accordance with the CEA (Installation and Operations of 
Meters)  Regulations  and any subsequent amendments made thereto . 
11.1.2  The responsibility for downloading and onward transmission of the metered data 
of the (SEMs) from the pre -identified locations shall be as per the Grid Code  and 
any subsequent amendments made  thereto . 
11.2 Accounting of PoC Charges  
11.2.1  Regional Transmission Accounts  
11.2.1.1  The Regional Power Committee (RPC) shall issue the Regional 
Transmission Accounts on the first ( 1st) Working Day of the month as per 
the Sharing Regulations , for the previous month to all the DICs , CTU and 
ISTS Licensees . 
11.2.2  Regional Transmission Deviation Accounts  
11.2.2.1  The RPC shall issue the Regional Transmission Deviation Accounts by 
fifteenth ( 15th) day of the month in  accordance with the Sharing Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 16 Regulations . 
12.0 Billing, Collection and Disbursement of Tr ansmission Charges  
12.1 The DICs and the ISTS Licensees shall abide by the detailed “Billing, Collection 
and Disbursement Procedure ” of CTU , as approved by the Commission  and such 
“Billing Collection and Disbursement Procedure” shall be construed, as part of 
this Agreement . 
12.2 The CTU shall raise bills, collect and disburs e in accordance with the detailed 
“Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure ”. 
12.3 Each DIC unequivocally agrees to allow CTU to enforce recovery of payment 
through Letter of Credit on behalf of all the ISTS Licensees in the event of default 
in payment by the DIC, in accordance with the detailed “Billing, Collection and 
Disbursement Procedure” . 
12.4 The DICs also agree and empower the CTU to undertake Regulation of Power 
Supply, to recover charges unde r the provisions of CERC (Regulation of Power 
Supply) Regulations, 2010  and any amendments thereof.  
12.5 If payment by a DIC against any invoice raised under Billing, Collection  and 
Disbursement procedure is outstanding beyond thirty  (30) days after the due date 
or in case the required Letter of credit or any other agreed payment security 
mechanism is not maintained by the DIC, the CTU is empowered to undertake 
Regulation of Powe r Supply on behalf of all the ISTS Licencees so as to recover 
charges under the provisions of CERC (Regulation of Power Supply) Regulations, 
2010 and any amendments thereof.  
12.6 Payment by DICs  
12.6.1 Payment by DICs to the CTU shall be executed through RTGS i n accordance with 
the “Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure”.   Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 17 13.0 Disbursement by CTU to ISTS Licensees  
13.1 As per  the Revenue Sharing Agreement entered into between the CTU and ISTS 
Licensees, the CTU shall collect PoC charges and thereafter distribut e the same to 
ISTS Licensees in accordance with the detailed “Billing, Collection and 
Disbursement Procedure” . 
13.2 Delayed payment or partial payment or non -payment of transmission charges in a 
month by any DIC shall result in pro -rata reduction in the payouts  to all the ISTS 
Licensees  and owners of Deemed ISTS . 
13.3 Payment by CTU  
13.3.1  Payment by CTU to all the ISTS Licensees  and owners of Deemed ISTS , whose 
charges have been considered while arriving at PoC,  shall be executed  through 
RTGS in accordance with the terms o f Revenue Sharing Agreement entered into 
by and between the CTU and ISTS Licensees.  
 
14.0 Force Majeure  
The following terms shall have the meanings given hereunder . 
14.1 An „Affected Party‟ means any of the DICs or the ISTS Licensees whose 
performance has been adve rsely affected by an event of Force Majeure.  
14.2 A „Force Majeure‟ means any event or circumstance or combination of events  
and  circumstances  including  those  stated  below  that  wholly  or partly  
prevents  or  unavoidably  delays  an   Affected   Party   in  the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, but only if and to the extent that such events or 
circumstances are not within the reasonable control, directly or indirectly, of the 
Affected Party and could not have been avoided if the Affec ted Party had taken 
reasonable care or complied with Prudent Utility Practices:  Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 18 14.2.1  Natural Force Majeure Events  
(a) Act of God, including , but not limited to   drought, fire and explosion (to 
the extent originating from a source external to the Site), earthq uake, 
volcanic  eruption,  landslide,  flood,  cyclone,  typhoon,  tornado,  or 
exceptionally adverse weather conditions which are in excess of the 
statistical measures for the last hundred (100) years,  
14.2.2  Non-Natural  Force Majeure Events:  
(a) Direct Non -Natural Force Majeure Events  
 (i) Nationalization or compulsory acquisition by any Indian  
Governmental Instrumentality of any material assets or rights of 
any ISTS Licensee; or  
(ii) the unlawful, unreasonable or discriminatory revocation of, or 
refusal  to  r enew,  any  Consents,  Clearances  and  Permits  
required by an ISTS Licensee to perform its obligations under this 
Agreement, provided that a Competent Court of Law declares the 
revocation  or  refusal  to  be  unlawful,  unreasonable  and 
discriminatory a nd strikes the same down; or  
 (iii) any other unlawful, unreasonable or discriminatory action on the 
part of an Indian Governmental Instrumentality which is directed 
against the ISTS Licensee, provided that a Competent Court of Law 
declares the action to b e unlawful, unreasonable and discriminatory 
and strikes the same down  
(b) Indirect Non - Natural  Force Majeure Events  
  (i) act of war (whether declared or undeclared), invasion, armed 
conflict or act of foreign enemy, blockade, embargo, revolution, riot, 
insurrection, terrorist or military action; or  
 (ii) radio active contamination or ionising radiation originating from a  Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 19 source  in  India  or  resulting  from  any  other  Indirect  Non 
Natural  Force  Majeure  Event  mentioned  above,  excluding 
circum stances where the source or cause of contamination or 
radiation is brought or has been brought into or near the Site by 
the Affected Party or those employed or engaged by the 
Affected Party; or  
(iii) industry wide strikes and labour disturbances, having a  
nationwide impact in India  
14.3 Force Majeure Exclusions  
14.3.1  Force Majeure shall not include (i) any event or circumstance which is within  the 
reasonable  control  of  the Affected Party  and (ii) the  following conditions, 
except to the extent that they are conse quences of an event of Force Majeure  
14.3.2  Delay in the performance of any Contractors or their agents  
14.3.3  Non-performance  resulting  from  normal  wear and  tear  typically experienced 
in transmission materials and equipment  
14.3.4  Strikes or labour disturbance at the fa cilities of the Affected Party  
14.3.5  Insufficiency  of  finances  or  funds  or  the  Agreement  becoming onerous to 
perform; and  
14.3.6  Non-performance caused by, or connected with, the Affected Party‟s:  
(a) negligent or intentional acts, errors or omissions;  
(b) failure to comply with an Indian Law; or  
(c) breach of ,  or  default  under  this  Agreement   
14.4 Notification of Force Majeure Event  
14.4.1  The Affected Party shall give notice to the other Party and the CTU of any event Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 20 of Force  Majeure  as  soon as practicable, bu t  not later  than  seven  (7)  days  
after  the  date  on  which  such  Party  knew  or  should reasonably have known 
of the commencement of the event of Force  Majeure. If  an  event  of  Force  
Majeure  results  in  a  breakdown  of  communications  render ing  it    
unreasonable  to  give  notice  within  the  applicable  time  limit  specified  herein,  
then  the  Party  claiming  Force  Majeure shall give such notice as soon as 
practicable after reinstatement of communications, but not later than one (1)  
working day after such reinstatement  
Provided that such notice shall be a pre -condition to the Affected Party‟s 
entitlement to  claim relief under this Agreement.  Such notice shall include full 
particulars of the  event of Force Majeure, its effects on the Pa rty claiming relief 
and the remedial measures proposed. The Affected Party shall give the other Party 
and the CTU regular reports on the progress of those remedial measures and such 
other information as the other Party and the CTU may reasonably request ab out 
the Force Majeure.  
14.4.2  The Affected Party shall give notice to the other Party and the CTU of (i) the 
cessation of the relevant event of Force Majeure; and  (ii) the cessation of the 
effects of such event of Force Majeure on the performance of its rights o r 
obligations under this Agreement, as soon as practicable after becoming aware of 
each of these cessations  
14.5 Duty to perform and duty to mitigate  
14.5.1  To the extent not prevented by a Force Majeure Event, the Affected Party  shall  
continue  to  perform  its  ob ligations  as  provided  in  this Agreement. The 
Affected Party shall  use  its  efforts  to mitigate the effect of any event of Force 
Majeure as soon as practicable.  
14.6 Available  Relief for a Force Majeure Event  
14.6.1  Subject to this Article  14 
14.6.1.1  The Affected Party  shall  not  be  in  breach  of  its  obligations  pursuant  to  this Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 21 Agreement except to the extent that the performance of its obligations was 
prevented, hindered or delayed due to a Force Majeure Event;  
14.6.1.2  Each DIC or ISTS Licensee shall be entitled to cla im relief for a Force Majeure 
Event affecting  its  performance  in  relation  to  its  obligations  under  this 
Agreement ; 
14.6.1.3  It is clarified that the computation  of Availability under outage due to Force 
Majeure  Event shall be in accordance with the CERC (T erms and Conditions of 
Tariff) Regulations , 2009 as amended from time to time and any subsequent 
enactment thereof.  
 
15.0 Change  in Law  
15.1 Change  in Law  
15.1.1  Change in Law means the occurrence of any of the following after the Effective 
Date, resulting into any additi on/ reduction in the Monthly  Transmission Charges, 
as determined  or adopted  by the Commission .  
15.1.2  the  enactment ,  coming  into  effect,  adoption,  promulgation, amendment, 
modification or repeal  (without re -enactment or consolidation)  in  India, of any 
Law,  including  rules  and regulations framed pursuant to such Law;  
15.1.3  a change in the interpretation or application of any Law by any Indian Governmental 
Instrumentality having the legal power to interpret or apply such Law, or any 
Competent Court of Law;  
15.1.4  the imposition  of a requirement for obtaining any Consents, Clearances and 
Permits which was not required earlier;  
15.1.5  a change in the terms and conditions prescribed for obtaining any Consents, 
Clearances and Permits or the inclusion of any new  terms  or  cond itions  for  
obtaining  such  Consents, Clearances and Permits;  
15.1.6  any change in tax or introduction of any tax made applicable for  providing Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 22 transmission  service  by  the  ISTS Licensee, as  per  the terms of this Agreement ; 
and 
15.2 Notwithstanding  anything co ntained in this Agreement, Change in Law shall not 
cover any change on account of regulatory measures by the  Appropriate 
Commissions.  
15.3 Relief for Change in Law  
15.3.1  Any adjustment in the Monthly Transmission Charges on account of Change in 
Law shall be  determin ed and effective from such date, as decided by the  
Commission whose decision shall be final and binding on the Parties, subject 
to rights of appeal provided under applicable Law.  Further, in case of ISTS 
systems awarded through competitive bidding process  under section 63 of the 
Electricity Act, the reference date for determining the implications of Change 
in law shall be seven (7) days prior to the relevant bid due date for submission 
of tariff bid.  
 
 
16.0 Events of Default and Termination  
16.1 Event of Default of the ISTS Licensee  
16.1.1  The occurrence and continuation of any of the following events shall constitute a n 
ISTS Licensee Event of Default, unless any such ISTS Licensee Event of Default 
occurs as a result of the DIC Event of Default or a Force Majeure Event:  
16.1.2  If the ISTS Licensee:  
16.1.2.1  assigns, mortgages  or charges or purports to assign, mortgage or charge 
any of its assets or rights related to its assets in  contravention  of  the  
provisions  of this Agreement.  
16.1.2.2  transfers or novates any of its obligations pursuant to this Agreement, in a Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 23 manner contrary to the provisions of this Agreement except where such 
transfer is in pursuance of a Law and  
(a) it does not affect the ability of the transferee to perform, and  
such transferee  has  the  financial and technical capab ility to 
perform, its obligations under this Agreement;  
(b) is to a transferee who assumes such obligations under this 
Agreement remains effective with respect to the transferee . 
16.1.3  If: 
16.1.3.1  the ISTS Licensee becomes voluntarily or involuntarily the subject of   
any bankruptcy   or   insolvency   or   winding   up proceedings and such 
proceedings remain uncontested for a period of thirty (30) days; or  
16.1.3.2  any  winding  up  or  bankruptcy  or  insolvency  order  is passed against 
the ISTS Licensee; o r 
16.1.3.3  the ISTS Licensee  goes into liquidation or dissolution or a receiver or any 
similar officer is appointed over all or substantially all  of  its  assets  or  
official  liquidator  is appointed  to manage its affairs, pursuant to Law,  
Provided that a dissolution or liquidat ion of the ISTS Licensee will not 
be a n ISTS Licensee Event of Default where such dissolution or 
liquidation of the ISTS Licensee is for the purpose of a merger, 
consolidation or reorganization with the approval of the  CERC as  per  
the  provisions  of CE RC (Procedure, terms and Conditions for grant of 
Transmission License and  other  related  matters)   Regulations, 2006 , and   
any amendment made thereof; or  
16.1.4  Revocation  of the transmission  license of the ISTS Licensee; or  
16.1.5  The ISTS Licensee  fails to  achieve  monthly  target  availability, as specified in 
CERC  (Standards of performance of ISTS Licensees) Draft Regulations, 2010 
(effective from the date of Notification of Final Regulations) , for a period of six Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 24 (6) consecutive months or for a non -consecutive pe riod of six (6) months within 
any continuous aggregate period of eighteen (18) months except where the 
Availability is affected by Force Majeure Events as per Article  14; or 
16.1.6  Any of the representations  and warranties made by the ISTS Licensee in Article  
19.2.1  of  this  Agreement  being  found  to  be  untrue  or inaccurate; or  
16.1.7  The ISTS Licensee  fails to comply with the prevailing regulations including the 
Indian Electricity Grid Code or is in material breach of t his Agreement and such 
material breach is not rectified by the ISTS Licensee within thirty (30) days of 
receipt of notice in this regard from the concerned DIC  or the CTU . 
16.2 Event of Default of a DIC  
16.2.1  The occurrence and continuation of any of the following ev ents shall constitute a 
DIC Event of Default, unless any such DIC Event of Default occurs as a result of 
the ISTS Licensee Event of Default or a Force Majeure Event:  
16.2.1.1  A DIC fails to comply with the prevailing regulations including the Indian 
Electricity Gri d Code or is in material breach of this Agreement and such 
material breach is not rectified by the said DIC within thirty (30) days of 
receipt of notice in this regard from the concerned ISTS Licensee  or the 
CTU ; 
16.2.1.2  Any of the representations and warranties m ade by the DIC in Article  
19.1.1  of this Agreement being found to be untrue or inaccurate; or  
16.2.1.3  If 
 (a) a DIC becomes voluntarily or involuntarily the subject of any 
bankruptcy or  insolvency or  winding  up  proc eedings  and such 
proceedings remain uncontested for a period of thirty (30) days; or  
(b) any winding   up  or  bankruptcy  or  insolvency  order  is passed 
against a DIC;or  Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 25 (c) a DIC goes  into liquidation  or  dissolution  or  a  receiver  or  any  
simila r officer  is  appointed  over  all  or  substantially  all  of  its 
assets or official liquidator is appointed to manage its affairs, 
pursuant to Law,  
 Provided  that  it  shall  not  constitute  a  DIC Event  of Default  
where  such dissolution   or   li quidation   of   such DIC is for 
the purpose of a merger consolidation or reorganization and 
where the resulting entity   has   the   financial   standing   to   
perform  its obligations under this Agreement, similar to such 
DIC and expressly assumes all obligations   of   such   DIC under 
this Agreement and is in a position to perform them . 
16.3 Cessation of ISTS Licensee being Party to this Agreement  
16.3.1  Upon the occurrence  and continuance of the ISTS Licensee Event of Default 
under Article  16.1, the CTU shall serve notice on the concerned ISTS Licensee, 
with a copy to the  Commission , which shall specify in reasonable detail, the 
circumstances giving rise to such notice.  
16.3.2  Following the issue of such notice, as mentioned  in Article  16.3.1 , the 
Consultation Period shall apply and CTU and the concerned ISTS Licensee 
discuss as to what steps shall be taken with a view to mitigate the consequences of 
the relevant   Event   of   Def ault   having   regard to all the circumstances.  
16.3.3  During  the  Consultation   Period,  the  ISTS Licensee shall, save as otherwise 
provided in this Agreement, continue to perform its obligations under  this  
Agreement,  and  it shall not remove any material or equipment , without  prior  
consent  of  the  CTU .  
16.3.4  Following  the  expiry   of  the  Consultation Period, unless  the CTU and the 
concerned ISTS Licensee shall  have  otherwise  agreed  to  the  contrary  or  the 
circumstances giving   rise   to   such notice as mentioned in Article  16.3.1  shall 
have ceased to  exist  or  shall  have  been  remedied,  the  concerned ISTS 
Licensee shall cease to be a Party to this Agreement and the CTU shall issue 
a written noti ce (“Termination Notice”) of thirty (30) days to this effect with   
a   copy   to   the   Commission and Implementing Agency. Unless the Lenders of 
the concerned ISTS Licensee have exercised their rights of substitution as per the Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 26 provisions of Article  17.3 of this Agreement and the  Commission has  agreed to 
such substitution rights of the Lenders or otherwise directed by the  Commission , 
the concerned ISTS Licensee shall cease to be a Party to this Agreement on the 
date of expiry of the  Termination Notice. Thereupon, the  CTU shall approach   
the   CERC seeking revocation of the transmission license as per the provisions 
of the Electricity Act, 2003.  
16.4 Cessation of DIC being Party to this Agreement  
16.4.1  Upon the occurr ence and continuance of a DIC Event of Default under Article  
16.2, the CTU may serve notice on the concerned DIC, with a copy to the 
CERC, which shall specify in reasonable detail, the circumstances giving rise to 
such Notice.  
16.4.2  Following the issue of such notice, as mentioned in Article  16.4.1 , the 
Consultation Period shall apply and CTU and the concerned DIC discuss as to 
what steps shall be taken with a view to mitiga te the consequences of the relevant   
Event   of   Default   having   regard to all the circumstances.   
16.4.3  During  the  Consultation  Period,  the  DIC shall,  save  as otherwise provided 
in this Agreement, continue to perform its obligations  under  this  Ag reement.  
16.4.4  Following  the  expiry  of  the  Consultation Period, unless  the CTU and the 
concerned DIC shall  have  otherwise  agreed  to  the  contrary  or  the 
circumstances giving   rise   to   such notice as mentioned in Article  16.4.1  shall 
have ceased to  exist  or  shall  have  been  remedied,  the  concerned DIC 
shall cease to be a Party to this Agreement and the CTU shall issue a written 
notice (“Termination Notice”) of thirty (30) days to this effect with   a   copy   
to   the    Commission and Implementing Agency. Unless the Lenders of the 
concerned ISTS Licensee have exercised their rights of substitution as per the 
provisions of Article 1 7.3 of this Agreement and the  Commission has agreed to 
such subs titution rights of the Lenders or otherwise directed by the  Commission , 
the concerned DIC shall cease to be a Party to this Agreement on the date of 
expiry of  the Termination Notice  Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 27 17.0 Assignments and Charges  
17.1 Assignments  
17.1.1  This Agreement shall be bindin g upon, and inure to the benefit of the Parties and 
their respective successors and permitted assigns . This Agreement shall not be 
assigned by any Party, except as provided in Article  17.2.4 . 
17.2 Permitted Charges  
17.2.1     Any ISTS Licensee  shall not create or permit to subsist any encumbrance over 
all or any of its rights and benefits under this Agreement  except as permitted in this 
Agreement .  
17.2.2  Any ISTS Licensee may create any encumbrance over all or part of the 
receivabl es or its transmission assets in favour of the Lenders or the Lenders‟ 
Representative on their behalf, as security for amounts payable under the 
Financing Agreements .  
Provided that:  
(a) the Lenders or the Lenders‟ Representative on their behalf shall  have 
entered into the Financing Agreements; and  
(b) any  encumbrance  granted  by  an ISTS Licensee in  accordance  with  this 
Article  17.2.2  shall  contain  provisions  pursuant  to  which  the Lenders  
or  the  Lender‟ s  Representative  on  their  behalf  agrees unconditionally 
with the ISTS Licensee to release from such encumbrances upon payment 
by the ISTS Licensee to the Lenders of all amounts due under the Financing 
Agreements.  
17.2.3  Article  17.2.1  does not apply to:  
17.2.3.1  liens  arising  by  operation  of  law (or  by  an  agreement evidencing  the  
same)  in  the  ordinary  course  of  provision of transmission services by 
an ISTS Licensee ; or Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 28 17.2.3.2  pledges of goods, the related documents  of title and / or other related 
documents, arising or created in the ordinary course of provision of 
transmission services for raising working capital loans by an ISTS 
Licensee ; or  
17.2.3.3  security arising out of retention of title provisions in relation to good s 
acquired in the ordinary course of provision of transmission services by an 
ISTS Licensee . 
17.2.4  Neither any ISTS  Licensee nor any DIC can relinquish or transfer its rights and 
obligations, without prior approval of the  Commission , save when such 
encumbrance is created under  Clause 17.2.2 . 
17.3  Substitution Rights of the Lenders  of ISTS Licensee  
17.3.1  An ISTS Licensee  shall operate and maintain its transmission assets under the 
provisions  of  its transmission  license  grant ed  by  the  Commission  and the 
provisions of this Agreement and can  not assign the t ransmission  license  or  
transfer  its transmission assets or  part  thereof  to  any person by sale, lease, 
exchange or otherwise, without the prior approval of the  Com mission .  
17.3.2  However, in the case of default by the ISTS Licensee in debt repayments, the  
Commission  may, on an application from the Lenders , assign the transmission 
license to the nominee of the Lenders subject  to the fulfillment of the 
qualification require ments and provisions of the CERC (Procedure , terms and  
Conditions for grant of Transmission License and other related matters) 
Regulations , and any subsequent amend ments  made  there to .  
 
18.0 Governing Law and Dispute Resolution  
18.1 Governing  Law 
18.1.1  This Agreement  shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Laws 
of India. Any legal proceedings in respect of any matters, claims  or  disputes  Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 29 under  this  Agreement  shall  be  under  the  jurisdiction  of appropriate courts in  
18.2 Amicable  Settlement:  
18.2.1  A DIC , ISTS Licensee or CTU is  entitled  to  raise  any  claim,  dispute  or 
difference  of whatever  nature  arising  under,  out  of  or  in  connection  with 
this Agreement by giving a written notice to the other Party, which shall contain:  
(a) a description of th e Dispute;  
(b) the grounds for such Dispute; and  
(c) all written material in support of its claim.  
18.2.2  The Party against  which the Dispute has been raised (“ Party in Dispute ”) shall, 
within thirty  (30) days of issue of notice issued under Article  18.2.1 , furnish:  
(a) counter -claim and defenses, if any, regarding the Dispute; and  
(b) all written material in support of its defenses and counter -claim.  
18.2.3  Within thirty (30) days of issue of notice by the Party pursuant to Article  18.2.1  if 
the Party in Dispute does not furnish any counter claim or defense under Article  
18.2.2 , or thirty  (30) days from  the date of furnishing  counter claims or defense 
by the other Party, both the Parties to the Dispute shall meet to settle such 
Dispute amicably.   If the Parties fail to resolve the Dispute amicably within thirty 
(30) days from the later of the dates mentioned in this Article  18.2.3 , the Dispute 
shall be referred for dispute resolution in accordance with Article  18.3. 
18.2.4  The CTU may involve the concerned ISTS Licensee or the concerned DIC in 
case the dispute is originate d due to actions/ performance of such ISTS 
Licensee  or DIC . The ISTS Licensees and the DICs are obligated to provide 
any support that the CTU may require in that regard.  
18.3 Dispute  Resolution  
18.3.1  Where any Dispute arises from a claim made by any Party regarding a ny 
provisions of this Agreement, such Dispute shall be submitted for adjudication  by 
the CERC . Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 30 18.3.2  The obligations  of the DICs under this Agreement towards the CTU or ISTS 
Licensees shall not be affected in any manner by reason of inter -se disputes 
amongst the  DICs  or ISTS Licensees . 
18.3.3  Where any  dispute is directed by CERC to be determined by Arbitration, the 
matter shall be determined by such persons as the CERC may nominate in that 
behalf on the application of the Party. In respect of all other purpose of the 
Arbitration proceeding, the provisions of Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 
1996 shall be applicable.  
18.3.3.1  The place of Arbitration shall be New Delhi. The language of the 
Arbitration shall be English.  
18.3.3.2  Courts at New Delhi shall have exclusive jurisdiction.  
18.4 Continuity  in Performance of Obligations  
18.4.1  Notwithstanding  the existence of any Dispute and difference referred to the 
Commission  or the Arbitration Tribunal, as provided in Article  18.3 and save as 
the Commission  or the Arbitration Tribunal may otherwise direct by a final or 
interim order, the Party who raised the Dispute pursuant to Article  18.2.1  and the 
Party in Dispute hereto shall continue to perform their respective obligations 
(which are not in dispute) under this Agreement.  
 
19.0 Representations and Warranties  
19.1 Representation  and warranties of the DICs  
19.1.1  Each DIC hereby represents and warrants to and agrees with the CTU and the 
ISTS Licensees as follows and acknowledges an d confirms that the CTU and the 
ISTS Licensees are relying on such representations and warranties in connection 
with the transactions described in this Agreement:  
19.1.1.1  It has all requisite  powers and has been duly authorized to  execute and 
consummate this Agree ment ; 
19.1.1.2  This Agreement is enforceable against the DIC in accordance with its 
terms ; Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 31 19.1.1.3  The consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement  
on  the  part  of  DIC will  not  violate  any  provision  of  nor  
constitute  a default under, nor give  rise to a power to cancel any 
charter, mortgage,  deed  of  trust  or  lien,  lease,  agreement,  license 
permit, evidence of indebtedness, restriction, or other contract to which 
the DIC is a party or to which the DIC is bound,  which  violation,  
defaul t  or  power  has  not  been waived ; 
19.1.1.4  The DIC is not insolvent  and no  insolvency  proceedings  have  been  
instituted,  nor threatened in writing  or  pending  by  or  against  the  
DIC; and  
19.1.1.5  There   are   no   actions,   suits,   claims,   proceedings or 
investigations pending or, to the best of the DIC‟s  knowledge, 
threatened  in  writing against the DIC at law, in equity, or otherwise, 
and whether civil or criminal in nature before   or   by,   any   court, 
commission,   arbitrator   or governmental   age ncy   or   authority,   
and   there   are   no outstanding judgements, decrees or orders of any 
such courts,  commission,   arbitrator   or   governmental   agencies   or 
authorities,  which  materially  and adversely  affect  its  ability  to 
comply with i ts obligations under this Agreement . 
19.1.2  Each of the DICs makes all the representations and warranties above to be valid 
as on the date of this  Agreement . 
19.2 Representation and warranties of the ISTS Licensees:  
19.2.1  Each ISTS Licensee  hereby represents and warrants to  and agrees with the CTU 
and the DICs as  follows  and  acknowledges  and  confirms that the DICs are 
relying on such representations  and  warranties  in  connection  with  the  
transactions described in this Agreement:  
19.2.1.1  It has all requisite  powers and has been duly authorized to execute and 
consummate this Agreement ; 
19.2.1.2  This Agreement is enforceable against the ISTS Licensee in 
accordance with its terms ; Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 32 19.2.1.3  The consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement 
on the part of the ISTS Licensee will n ot violate any provision of nor 
constitute a default under, nor give rise to a power to cancel  any  
charter,  mortgage,  deed  of  trust  or  lien,  lease, agreement,   license,   
permit,   evidence   of indebtedness, restriction, or other contract to 
which the ISTS Licensee is a party or to which the ISTS Licensee is 
bound which violation, default or power has not been waived ; 
19.2.1.4  The ISTS Licensee is not insolvent and no insolvency proceedings 
have been instituted, nor threatened or pending by or against the  ISTS 
Licensee ; and  
19.2.1.5  There   are   no   actions,   suits,   claims,   proceedings   or 
investigations pending or, to the best of the ISTS Licensee‟s   
knowledge, threatened  in  writing  against  the  ISTS Licensee at  law,  
in  equity,  or otherwise, and w hether civil or criminal in nature, before 
or by, any court, commission, arbitrator or governmental agency or 
authority, and there are no outstanding judgments, decrees or orders   
of   any   such   courts,   commission,   arbitrator   or governmental   
agencies   or   authorities,   which   materially  adversely  affect  its  
ability  to comply with its obligations under this Agreement.  
19.2.2  Each of the ISTS Licensees makes all the representations and warranties above  to 
be valid as on the date of this Agreemen t. 
 
INWITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES HAVE CAUSED THIS AGREEMENT TO 
BE EXECUTED BY THEIR DULY AUTHORISED REPRESENTATIVE AS OF THE 
DATE AND PLACE AS HEREIN AFTER APPEARING  
1. For and on behalf of …………………… …………….. ..( ISTS Licensees/ DICs) 
at ………. (place) on ………… …(date)  
Signature:  
Name:  
Designation:  
Address:  
 
 Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 33  
2. For and on behalf of …………………………………....( ISTS Licensees/ DICs) 
at ………. (place) on ……………(date)  
Signature:  
Name:  
Designation:  
Address:  
3. For and on behalf of …………………………………....( ISTS Licensees/ DICs) 
at ……….  (place) on ……………(date)  
Signature:  
Name:  
Designation:  
Address:  
 
WITNESS:  
For and on behalf of …………………………………....( ISTS Licensees/ DICs) at 
………. (place) on ……………(date)  
Signature:  
Name:  
Designation:  
Address:  
 
 Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 34 Schedule  - I 
1.0 Parties to the Agreement (to be ame nded from time to time)  
1.1 List of Designated ISTS Customers  
 
S. 
No. Name  Category 
(ISGS/ STU/ 
SEB/ Bulk 
Consumer, etc)  Address of 
Registered 
Office  Telephone/ Mobile 
No./ e -mail/ FAX  
1 .    
2 .    
3 .    
4 .    
5 .    
. .    
. .    
. .    
. .    
. .    
. .    
n     
 Note: Any addition or deletion in this list after the signing of this Agreement shall be 
duly notified to the Parties to this Agreement  
1.2 List of ISTS Licensees  
 
S.No.  Name  Address of Registered 
Office  Telephone/ Mobile No./ 
e-mail/ FA X 
1 .   
2 .   
3 .   
4 .   
5 .   Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 35 . .   
. .   
. .   
. .   
. .   
. .   
n    
 
3. Non -ISTS Licensee whose assets have been certified as being used for  inter-State 
transmission by the RPCs.  
S.No.  Name  Address of Registered 
Office  Telephone/ Mobile N o./ 
e-mail/ FAX  
1 .   
2 .   
3 .   
4 .   
5 .   
. .   
. .   
. .   
. .   
. .   
. .   
n    
 
 
 
Note: Any addition or deletion in this list after the signing of this Agreement shall be 
duly notified to the Parties to this Agreement  Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 36 Schedule - II 
1.0 Description of Transmission System (to be amended from time to time)  
1.1 Existing Transmission System    
 
S.No.  ISTS 
Licensee  Description of Transmission System  
Name of the 
Asset  Rating/ Voltage level  Remarks  (charging 
voltage etc)  
1     
2     
3     
.     
.     
.     
.     
.     
 
1.2 Deemed ISTS  
 
S.No.  Owner of 
Deemed 
ISTS  Description of Transmission System  
Name of the 
Asset  Rating/ Voltage level  Remarks (charging 
voltage etc)  
1     
2     
3     
.     
.     
.     
.     
.     
 Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 37 1.3 ISTS Schemes under execution  or New ISTS Schemes (to be inserted as and 
when developed)  
 
S.No.  ISTS 
Licensee  Description of Transmission System  COD  
Name of the 
Asset  Rating/ 
Voltage level  Remarks 
(charging 
voltage etc)  
1      
2      
3      
.      
.      
.      
.      
.      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 38 Annexure - A 
 
SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT  
BETWEEN  
Central Transmission Utility (CTU)  
AND  
[Insert name of the new Designated ISTS Customer or ISTS Licensee]  
 
THIS SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT entered into on ……. [Insert date] 
……………………… … [Insert day] of …………………….[Insert month] in 
……………………… [Insert year] by and between the Central Transmission Utility (here 
in after referred to as “ CTU ”, which expression shall unless repugnant to the context or 
meaning thereof include its successors, and permitted assigns) as Party of the first part,  
AND  
……………. [Insert name of the new Designated ISTS Customer or ISTS Licensee] 
having its registered office at……………. [Insert address of the new Designated ISTS 
Customer or ISTS Licensee] (which expression shall  unless repugnant to the context or 
meaning thereof include its successors, and permitted assigns) as Party of the second part.  
 
WHEREAS:  
A. CTU has executed the TSA with all the Designated ISTS Customers  and the ISTS 
Licensees , as listed out in Schedule 1 of  the TSA.  
B. The new ISTS Licensee has been awarded the license to provide the inter -state 
transmission service by the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) 
[Strike out in case of a new Designated ISTS Customer]  
C. The new Designated ISTS Customer has  been granted long term access or medium 
term open access to the ISTS by the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission 
(CERC) [Strike out in case of a new ISTS Licensee]                                            
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH as u nder:  
1) The new ISTS Licensee and its ISTS Scheme as on this date…. are as detailed Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 39 below:  
 
[Strike out in case of a new Designated ISTS Customer]  
 
The new Designated ISTS Customer and its long term access or medium term open 
access details are as described below:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Strike out in case of a new ISTS Licensee]  
 
2) The new ISTS Licensee [or Designated ISTS Customer] agrees to the terms and 
conditions laid down in the TSA for provision of ISTS [or usage of ISTS] and 
charge the transmission charges [ or pay the transmission charges] in accordance 
with the terms of the TSA and the provisions of this Supplementary Agreement.  
3) All terms and conditions of the TSA between the existing ISTS Licensees and the 
Designated ISTS Customers (as listed out in Schedul e 1 of this Supplementary 
Agreement) shall apply, mutatis mutandis  without any change, to the new ISTS 
Licensee [or Designated ISTS Customer).  
                                              Name of the new ISTS Licensee  Details of 
the ISTS 
Scheme  Scheduled Date of 
Commercial 
Operation   
   
Name of the new Designated ISTS 
Customer  Details of Long 
Term Access/ 
Medium Tem 
Open Access  Scheduled 
date/period of 
Long Term 
Access / Medium 
Term  Open 
Access  
   Transmission Service Agreement  
 
 40 IN WITNESS WHEREOF  the parties have executed these presents through  their 
Authorised Representatives  
 
WITNESS:  
1. Signature:  
Name: …………………………..  
Designation: ……………………….  For and on behalf of CTU  
  
 
2. Signature:  
Name: …………………………..  
Designation: ……………………….  For and on behalf of new ISTS Licensee 
[or Designated ISTS Customer ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Revenue Sharing Agreement  
 1 
 
  
    
 
Revenue   Sharing   
Agreement  
 
 
 
 
 
 Revenue Sharing Agreement  
 2 Index  
 
Sl.  No.            Contents          Page No . 
 
1.  Definition and Interpretations        5 
2. Parties to the Agreement         7 
3. Effectiveness and term of the Agreement       8 
4. Invoicing and Collection by CT U pursuant to the  TSA     8 
5. Disbursement by CTU to all ISTS Licensees       9 
6. Annual Reconciliation         9 
7. Payment Security Mechanism         9 
8. Disputed Revenue Share Statements        10 
9. Reporting Requirements         11 
10. Administration          11 
11. Governing Law and Dispute Resolution       12 
12. Indemnification          14 
13. Schedule           16 
14. Annexure           17 
 
 
 
 
 Revenue Sharing Agreement  
 3  
 
 
 
 
 
 
AGREEMENT  
 
This Agreement is made on this [___] day of [___] of [20 __] by and between the Central 
Transmission Utility (CTU) and  the ISTS Licensees whose names and regist ered offices are 
set out in Schedule  which shall include  their successors and permitted assigns  
WHEREAS  
A. The Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) in exercise of the powers 
conferred under section 178 read with Part V of the Electricity Act, 20 03 (36 of 
2003), has issued regulations for Sharing of Inter State Transmission Charges and 
Losses  in June,  2010  (hereinafter referred to as “Sharing  Regulation s”), pursuant to 
which the Central Transmission Utility (CTU) has entered into a Transmission 
Service Agreement (TSA) with all the ISTS Licensees and the Designated ISTS 
Customers (DICs); and the  CTU  is also enter ing into this Revenue Sharing Agreement 
(RSA) with all the ISTS Licensees  and , Deemed ISTS Licensees  and  other non -
ISTS Licensees whose assets have been certified as being used for interstate 
transmission by the  RPCs  entitled to share transmission charges collected from DICs ; 
B. The TSA provides for billing of transmission charges  in accordance with the detailed 
“Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure s”, by the CTU on behalf of all the 
ISTS Licensees  and Deemed ISTS Licensees   and other non -ISTS Licensees whose 
assets have been certified as being used for interstate transmission by the  RPCs. ; Revenue Sharing Agreement  
 4 C. The transmission charges collected pursuant to such “Billing, Collection and 
Disbursement Procedure” shall be disbursed to each ISTS Licensee by the CTU 
pursuant to and in accordance with this Agreement (“ Revenue Sharing 
Agreement ”); 
D. The impact of any dela yed payment  or pa rtial payment or non-payment by any 
Designated ISTS Customer shall be borne by each ISTS Licensee in accordance with 
the Sharing Regulations and any subsequent amendment s made  there to , and CTU is 
hereby indemnified against all such delayed/partial /non-payment by any DIC;   
E. This Revenue Sharing Agreement (RSA) shall apply to all existing as well as new 
ISTS Licensees  whose Yearly Transmission Charges have been considered while 
computing the Point of Connection ( PoC) Charges by the Implementing Agency ; 
F. This Revenue Sharing  Agreement may have aspects that are amended from time to 
time by the signatories without the entire agreement being replaced or being rendered 
infructuous ;  
G. The persons listed in Schedule  are Parties to this Revenue Sharing  Agreement . Any 
new ISTS Lic ensee  for the purpose  of providing inter -state transmission services  shall  
have to enter into a  RSA  Supplementary  Agreement , as provided for in  Annexure , 
pursuant to this Revenue Sharing  Agreement thereby binding itself to this Agreement . 
 Revenue Sharing Agreement  
 5 1.0 Definitions & Interpretations  
1.1 Definitions  
Unless the context otherwise requires the words/expressions when used in this Agreement 
shall have the respective meanings as specified below:  
“Agreement ” or “ this Agreement ” or “ Revenue Shar ing Agre ement ” means this 
agreement together with the Schedule , Annexure , and Documents referred to therein: as may 
be amended or modified from time to time ;  
“CERC” or “Commission”  mean s the Central Elec tricity  Regulatory Commission of India 
constitut ed under Section -76 of the Electricity Act, 2003 or its successors;  
"Central Transmission Util ity" or “CTU” mean s the utility notified by the Central 
Government under Section -38 of the Electricity Act, 2003;  
“Due Date ”  means , as described in the “Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure”;  
“Effective Date ” for the purposes of this Agreement, shall have the same meaning as per 
Article  3.0 of this Agreement;  
"Party " mean s a signatory to this Agre ement, which shall be the  CTU  or an ISTS Licensee, 
and "Parties" shall mean a joint reference to all the signatories to this Agreement, which shall 
be the CTU  and all the ISTS Licensee s; 
“Revenue Shar ing Statement ” mean s the summary rec eipt of the transmission charges 
disbursed by the CTU to the respective ISTS Licensees, corresponding to the payments made 
by the DICs against the First, Second, Third, Fourth and Supplementary Invoices under the 
“Billing, Collection and Disbursement Proce dure”;  
“Transmission Service Agreement ” or “ TSA” mean s the agreement entered into by the 
Central Transmission Utility (CTU) with all  the ISTS Licensees and the Designated Inter -
State Transmission Customers (DICs) , as annexed  to this Agreement ;  
"Working Day " means any day except Saturday, Sunday and statutory holiday .  
  
Words and expressions used in this Agreement and not defined herein but defined  in the Ac t 
or Regulations made by the Commission, shall have the meanings assigned  to them 
respectively in the Act, and Regulations made by the Commission from time to time  or the 
General Clauses Act failing which it shall bear the  ordinary English meaning .  Revenue Sharing Agreement  
 6 1.2 Interpretations  
Save where the contrary is indicated, any reference in this Agreement to:                           
“Agreement " shall be construed as including a reference t o its Schedule , Annexure  and 
documents ; 
"Rupee ”, "Rupees " and “
 ” shall denote lawful currency of India;  
“Crore” shall mean a reference to ten million (10,000,000) and a “ Lakh” mean s a reference 
to one tenth of a million (1,00,000);  
1.2.1  Words importing the singular shall include the plural and vice versa.  
1.2.2  This Agreement itself or any other agreement or document shall be construed as a 
reference to this or to such other agreement or document as it may have been, or may 
from time to time be, amended, varied, novated, replaced or supplemented.  
1.2.3  A Law shall be construed as a reference to such Law including its amendments or re -
enactments from time to time.  
1.2.4  A time of day shall, save as otherwise provided in any agreement or document be 
construed as a reference to Indian Standard Time.  
1.2.5  Different parts of this Agreement are to be taken as mutually explanatory and 
supplementary to each other and if there is any inconsistency between or amon g the 
parts of this Agreement, they shall be interpreted in a harmonious manner so as to 
give effect to each part.  
1.2.6  The tables of contents and any headings or sub -headings in this Agreement have been 
inserted for ease of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this 
Agreement.  
1.2.7  Any interest payable under this Agreement shall accrue from day to day and be 
calculated on the basis of a year of three hundred and sixty five (365) days.  
1.2.8  The words “hereof” or “herein”, if and when used in this Agree ment shall mean a 
reference to this Agreement.  
 Revenue Sharing Agreement  
 7 2.0 Parties to the Agreement  
2.1 CTU and e xisting ISTS Licensees  
2.1.1 All ISTS Licensees that are parties to the Transmission Service Agreement (TSA)  
shall  be part ies to this Agreement and shall bind themselves to the ter ms of this 
Agreement as of the date when Sharing Regulations  come into force .  
2.2 New ISTS Licensees  
2.2.1 This Agreement  shall  be  signed  by any new ISTS Licensee  for provid ing  inter-State 
transmission system to the DI Cs and have  already become a party to the Transmission 
Service Agreement (TSA)  pursuant to and in accordance with the said Transmission 
Service Agreement.  
2.2.2 A new ISTS Licensee shall become a Party to this Agreement by signing the RSA 
Supplementary  Agreement  between and by the CTU and that ISTS Licensee.  
2.2.3 The ISTS Licensees  and Deemed ISTS Licensees  hereby irrevocably and 
unconditionally authorise  CTU to execute on their behalf any RSA Supplementary 
Agreement duly executed by the new ISTS Licensee, and to thereby admit the new 
ISTS Licensee, as a Party to this Agreement.  Agreement s, as such executed , shall be 
deemed to have been signed by all the existing  parties of the RSA. A copy of such 
RSA Supplementary Agreement shall be made availab le by the CTU to all the ISTS 
Licensees  and Deemed ISTS Licensees .  
 
2.3 Non ISTS Licensees  whose assets have been certified for as being used for inter -State 
transmission by the RPCs and whose transmission charges have  been considered for 
the purpose of calculation of PoC charges shall be considered deemed signatories to 
this agreement and ther efore  all s uch rights and obligations, as applicable to ISTS 
Licensees, shall be applicable to them mutatis mutandis.  Revenue Sharing Agreement  
 8 3.0 Effectiveness  and term  of the Agreement  
3.1 Effective Date  
3.1.1 For the existing ISTS Licensees , irrespective of the date of their signing , this 
Agreement shall come into effect from the date , as notified under  Sharing Regulations 
or  as notified by the Commission  to such effect.  
3.1.2 For t he new ISTS Licensees , whose Y early Transmission Charges  have been 
considered in the computation of PoC Charges , this Agreement shall be effective from 
the date of the RSA Supplementary  Agreement, as  executed by the CTU and the new 
ISTS Licensee . 
3.1.3 For t he other non -ISTS Licensees whose assets have been certified as being used for 
interstate transmission by the  RPCs , whose Yearly Transmission Charges have been 
considered in the computation of PoC Charges,  this Agreement shall be effective from 
the date of approval coming into force  and their assets are included in the calculation 
of PoC charges.   
  
3.2 Term of the Agreement  
3.2.1  From the Effective Date, each ISTS Licensee undertakes to the CTU and the CTU to 
each ISTS Licensee to comply with and to perform their respective obligations in 
accordance with and subject to this Agreement.  
3.2.2 The term of the Agreement  shall begin on the Effective D ate and shall continue in 
accordance with the term of Transmission Service Agreement  until the validity of 
TSA .  
4.0 Invoicing  and Collection by CTU pursuant to the Transmission Service 
Agreement  
4.1 The PoC charges for use of ISTS by each DIC  shall  be bil led and collected by CTU 
on behalf of all ISTS Licensees  in accordance with the “Billing, Collection and 
Disbursement Procedure”.  
4.2 The CTU shall raise the Invoices  and collect payments from each Designated ISTS 
Customer in accordance with the “Billing, Coll ection and Disbursement Procedure”.   Revenue Sharing Agreement  
 9 4.3 The CTU shall disburse the  transmission charges , as collected by the CTU,  to 
respective  ISTS Licensees  and owners of Deemed ISTS whose transmission charges  
have been considered for the purpose of calculation of PoC Char ges in accordance with 
the “Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure”.   
4.4 Delayed payment or partial payment or non -payment by any DIC shall result in pro -rata 
reduction in the payouts to all the ISTS Licensees  and owners of Deemed ISTS whose 
transmiss ion charges have been considered for the purpose of calculation of PoC 
Charges.  
5.0 Disbursement  by CTU to all ISTS Licensees  
5.1 Timelines for disbursement by the CTU  
5.1.1 Timelines for disbursement by the CTU shall be in accordance with the “Billing, 
Collection and D isbursement Procedure”.  
5.2 Revenue Shar ing Statements to be submitted by CTU  
5.2.1 Revenue Sharing Statements to be submitted by the CTU shall be in accordance with 
the “Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure”.  
5.3 Modality of disbursements by the CTU  
5.3.1 The moda lity of disbursements by the CTU shall be in accordance with the “Billing, 
Collection and Disbursement Procedure”.  
6.0 Annual Reconciliation  
6.1 The modality of Annual Reconciliation between the CTU and the ISTS Licensees 
shall be in accordance with the “Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure”.   
7.0 Payment Security Mechanism  (PSM)  
7.1 Each ISTS licensee hereby empowers the CTU to enforce recovery of payment from 
DICs through payment security mechanism in the event o f default/ partial payment by 
the DIC, in accordance with the detailed “Billing, Collection and Disbursement 
Procedure s”. 
7.2 Each ISTS licensee shall further  agree and empower  the CTU to invoke the provisions 
of CERC (Regulation of Power Supply) Regulations, 2010  as amended from time to Revenue Sharing Agreement  
 10 time and in accordance with the detailed “Billing, Collection and Disbursement 
Procedure”  for any default by the DICs . 
7.2.1 The ISTS Licensees shall provide any assistance that may be required by the  CTU to 
obtain the payment security from the DICs  including transfer of existing letters of 
credit  and other PSMs  to the CTU , pursuant to and in accordance with the “Billing, 
Collection and Disbursement Procedure”.    
 
8.0 Disputed Revenue Shar ing Statem ents 
8.1 If the ISTS Licensee does not question or dispute an y Revenue Share Statement  
within thirty (30) days of receiving it, the Revenue Share Statement  shall be 
considered correct, complete and conclusive between the CTU and the ISTS Licensee . 
8.2 If an ISTS L icensee disputes any item or part of an item set out in any Revenue 
Sharing Statement (RSS)  then such ISTS Licensee shall serve a notice (" RSS Dispute 
Notice ") on the CTU setting out  
(a) the item or part of an item which is in dispute,  
(b)  its estimate of what su ch item or part of an item should be, and 
(c) with all written material in support of its claim.  
8.3 If the CTU agrees to the claim raised in the RSS Dispute Not ice issued pursuant to 
Clause  8.2, the CTU shall revise su ch Revenue Share Statement  within seven (7) days 
of receiving such RSS Dispute N otice from the said ISTS Licensee and if the ISTS 
Licensee has received less payment  for reasons other than delayed payment or partial 
payment or non -payment by a DIC pursuant to the Transmission Service Agreement , 
the CTU shall raise a Supplementary Revenue Share Statement within seven (7) Days  
of receiving RSS Dispute Notice and shall pay the ISTS Licensee as and when the 
DIC pay.  
8.4 If CTU does not agre e to the claim raised in the RSS Dispute Notice issued pursuant 
to Clause  8.2, it shall, within fifteen (15) days of receiving the RSS Dispute Notice, 
furnish a notice to the said ISTS Licensee providing  
(a) reason s for its disagreement;  Revenue Sharing Agreement  
 11 (b)  its estimate of what the correct amount should be; and  
(c) all written material in support of its counter -claim.  
8.5 Upon receipt of notice of disagreement to the RSS Dispute Notice under Clause  8.2, 
authorised representative(s) of CTU and the said ISTS Licensee shall meet and make 
best endeavours to amicably resolve such Dispute within fifteen (15) days of 
receiving such notice of disagreement to the RSS Dispute Notice.  
8.6 If CTU and the said IST S Licensee could  not amicably resolve the dispute within 
fifteen (15) days of receipt of notice of disagreement to the RSS Dispute Notice 
pursuant to Clause  8.2, the matter shall be referred to CERC for Dispute resolutio n in 
accordance with Clause 11.3. 
8.7 If the Dispute is settled pursuant to Clause  8.5 or by Dispute resolution mechanism 
provided in this Agreement in favour of  the said ISTS Licensee , the CTU shall raise 
Supplementary Revenue Shar ing Statement within five (5) Working  Days of receiving 
such decision and shall pay the ISTS Licensee as and when the DIC pay.  
9.0 Reporting Requirements  
9.1 CTU sha ll furnish details of  the transmission charges payable and collected on a 
monthly, bi-annual and annual basis. The monthly  report s to be submitted to each of 
the ISTS Licensees shall comprise of:  
(a) Details of total PoC charges  billed to and collected from  the DICs  
(b) Payment defaults , if any,  made by the DICs  
(c) Details of Late Payment Surcharge   
(d) Details of Rebates  
(e) Details of total transmission charges disbursed to the ISTS Licensees  
10.0 Administration  
10.1 The Parties shall : 
(a) meet at least twice a year to review compliance with this Agreement;  Revenue Sharing Agreement  
 12 (b) resolve any issues relating to implementation  of this Agreement  through 
amicable  discussions ; and  
(c) carry -out such other activities  relating to this Agreement as the Partie s may 
agree from time to time to be appropriate  within the ambit of the Sharing 
Regulations . 
10.2 Co-ordination Committee  
10.2.1  The Parties shall form a committee (“ Co-ordination Committee ”) to co -ordinate the 
activities mentioned in Clause  10.1. 
10.2.2  The Co-ordination Committee shall comprise of two representatives from the CTU, 
one representative from the Implementation Agency , one representative from each 
RPC  and one repre sentative each from each of the ISTS Li censees.  
 
11.0 Gove rning Law and Dispute Resolution  
11.1 Governing  Law 
11.1.1  This Agreement  shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Laws of 
India. Any legal proceedings in respect of any matters, claims  or  disputes  under  this  
Agreement  shall  be  under  the  juri sdiction  of appropriate courts in New Delhi . 
11.2 Amicable  Settlement:  
11.2.1  The CTU  or an ISTS Licensee is  entitled  to  raise  any  claim,  dispute  or difference  
of whatever  nature  arising  under,  out  of  or  in  connection  with this 
Agreement by giving a written notice to the other Party, which shall contain:  
(a) a description of the Dispute;  
(b) the grounds for such Dispute; and  
(c) all written material in support of its claim.  
11.2.2  The Party against  which the Dispute has been raised (“Party in Dispute”) shall, within 
thirty (30) days of issue of notice under Clause 11.2.1 , furnish:  
(a) counter -claim and defenses, if any, regarding the Dispute; and  Revenue Sharing Agreement  
 13 (b) all written material in support of its defenses and counter -claim.  
11.2.3  Within thirty (30)  days of issue of notice by the Party pursuant to Clause 11.2.1  if the 
Party in Dispute does not furnish any counter claim or defense under Clause 11.2.2 , 
or thirty (30) days from  the  date  of  furnishing counter claims or defense by the 
other Party, both the parties to the Dispute shall meet to settle such Dispute 
amicably.   If the parties fail to resolve the Dispute amicably within thirty (30) days 
from the later of the dates mentioned in this Clause 11.2.3 , the Dispute shall be 
referred for dispute resolution in accordance with Clause 11.3. 
 
11.3 Dispute  Resolution  
11.3.1  Where any Disput e arises from a claim  made  in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement  either of the parties to the dispute may approach the Commission for 
reference of the case for  adjudication of the dispute in accordance of the Electricity 
Act, 2003 . 
11.3.2  In respect of all other purpose of the Arbitration proceeding, the provisions of 
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 shall be applicable . 
11.3.2.1  The place of Arbitration shall be New Delhi. The language of the Arbitration 
shall be English.  
11.3.2.2   Courts at Ne w Delhi shall have exclusive jurisdiction.  
11.4 Continuity  in Performance of Obligations  
11.4.1  Notwithstanding  the pendency  of any Dispute before CERC or any other 
Court/Tribunal with regard to this agreement or its implementatio n, as per the 
Electricity Act  the parties to the dispute  shall continue to perform their respective 
obligations  (which are not in dispute) under th is Agreement.  
 
 
 Revenue Sharing Agreement  
 14 12.0 Indemnification  
12.1 Indemnification by the ISTS Licensees  
12.1.1  The ISTS Licensees shall agree to indemnify and hold the CTU harmless from and 
against any and all damages, losses, liabilities, obligations, claims of any kind 
including any tax liabili ty, interest, cost, fee, or expenses (including, without 
limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) (collectively, " Losses "), suffered, 
incurred or paid, directly, as a result of, in connection with or arising out of exercise 
of CTU’s obligations  of billing and collecting transmission charges on behalf of ISTS 
Licensees pursuant to and in accordance with the Transmission Service Agreement, 
and subsequently disbursing them to all ISTS Licensees in accordance with this 
Agreement.  
 
12.2 Indemnity to Survi ve Termination  
12.2.1  The obligations of the ISTS Licensees under Clause 12.1 shall survive the 
termination of this Agreement .   
 
 
INWITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES HAVE CAUSED THIS AGREEMENT TO BE 
EXECUTED BY THEIR DULY AUTHORISED REPRESENTATIVE AS OF THE DATE 
AND PLACE AS HEREIN AFTER APPEARING  
1. For and on behalf of …………………… …………….. ..( ISTS Licensees )                   
at ………. (place) on ………… …(date)  
Signature:  
Name:  
Designation : 
Address:  
 
 
 Revenue Sharing Agreement  
 15 2. For and on behalf of …………………………………....( ISTS Licensees )                      
at ………. (place) on ……………(date)  
Signature:  
Name:  
Designation:  
Address:  
3. For and on behalf of …………………………………....( ISTS Licensees )                          
at ………. (place) on ……………(date)  
Signature:  
Name:  
Designation:  
Address:  
 
WITNESS:  
For and on behalf of …………………………………....( ISTS Licensees )                                  
at ………. (place) on ……………(date)  
Signature:  
Name:  
Designation:  
Address:  Revenue Sharing Agreement  
 16 Schedule  
 
S.No.  Name of the ISTS 
Licensee  Address of Registered 
Office  Phon e No./ FAX No./ e -
mail  
1 .   
2 .   
3 .   
4 .   
5 .   
. .   
. .   
. .   
. .   
. .   
. .   
n    
  
 Revenue Sharing Agreement  
 17 Annexure  
RSA Supplementary  Agreement  
RSA SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT  
BETWEEN  
Central Transmission Utility (CTU)  
AND  
[Insert name of the new ISTS Licensee]  
 
 
THIS SUPPLEMENTARY AGREEMENT entered into on ……. [Insert date] 
………………………… [Insert day] of …………………….[Insert month] in 
……………………… [Insert year] by and between the Central Transmission Utility (here in 
after referre d to as “ CTU ”, which expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning 
thereof include its successors, and permitted assigns) as Party of the first part,  
AND  
……………. [Insert name of the new ISTS Licensee] having its registered office 
at……………. [Ins ert address of the new ISTS Licensee] (which expression shall unless 
repugnant to the context or meaning thereof include its successors, and permitted assigns) as 
Party of the second part.  
 
WHEREAS:  
A. All the existing ISTS Licensees, as listed out in Schedul e of this RSA, have executed 
the RSA with CTU.  
B. The new ISTS Licensee has been awarded the license to provide the inter -state 
transmission service by the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC).  
C. The new ISTS Licensee has signed the Transmission Service Agreement (TSA), as 
entered into by the Central Transmission Utility (CTU) with all the ISTS Licensees 
and the Designated ISTS Customers (DICs) , through execution of the Supplementary 
Agreement, as mentioned in the TSA thereof.  
 
 
 
 
 
 Revenue Sharing Agreement  
 18 NOW THEREFORE THIS  AGREEMENT WITNESSETH as under:  
1) The new ISTS Licensee and its transmission project as on this date…. are as detailed 
below:  
 
 
 
 
2) The new ISTS Licensee agrees to the terms and conditions laid down in the RSA.  
3) All terms and conditions of the RSA between the CTU and the existing ISTS 
Licensees ( as listed out in Schedule 1 of this RSA Supplementary Agreement) shall 
apply, mutatis mutandis  without any change, to the new ISTS Licensee.  
                                              
IN WITNESS WHEREOF  the parties have executed these presents through their Authorised 
Representatives  
 
 
 
 
 
 
WITNESS:  
 
1. Signature:  
Name: …………………………..  
Designation: ……………………….  For and on behalf of CTU  
Signature:  
Name: …………………………..  
Designation: ……………………….  
  
 
 
2. Signature:  
Name : …………………………..  
Designation: ……………………….  For and on behalf of new ISTS Licensee  
Signature:  
Name : …………………………..  
Designation: ……………………….   
 
 Name of the new ISTS Licensee  Details of the Transmission 
Project  
  Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 1 
 
 
 
 
 
Billing, Collection and Disbursement  (BCD)  
Procedur e 
under the  
CERC (Sharing of Inter State Transmission 
Charges and Losses) Regulations, 2010  Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 2  
Index  
S. No.  Contents  Page No.  
1.0 General Provisions  3 
2.0 Billing  4 
2.1 Bills to be raised for D ICs 4 
2.2 Specific provisions for billing purposes  5 
2.3 Uploading and Raising of Bills  6 
3.0 Payment and collection  6 
3.1 Due date  6 
3.2 Mode of Payment  7 
3.3 Rebates for timely payments  8 
3.4 Late payment surcharge  8 
3.5 Disputed Bill  8 
3.6 Letter of Credit  10 
3.7 Deafault in payment beyond sixty days  11 
3.8 Tax and other deductions  12 
3.9 TDS Certificates  12 
4.0 Disbursements to the ISTS Licensees  13 
4.1 Categorization of PoC charges collected by the CTU  13 
4.2 Bills  13 
4.3 Tax and other deductions  15 
4.4 Timelines for disbursements by the CTU  16 
4.5 Modality of disbursements  16 
4.6 Revenue Share Statements to be submitted by CTU  17 
5.0 Annual reconciliation  18 
5.1 Between ISTS Licensees represented by the CTU and the DICs  18 
5.2 Between the CTU and the ISTS Licensees  18 
6.0 Reporting requirements for the CTU  19 
7.0 Financial Adjustment in the Long Term Charges  20 
 Annexure  23 
 Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 3 1.0 General Provisions  
1.1 The procedures laid down herein are in  compliance of  the Central Electricity 
Regulatory Commission (Sharing of Inter -State Transmission Charges and Losses ) 
Regulations , 2010  (the “ Sharing Regulations”) . 
1.2 The procedure is  subject to any subsequent amendments in the Sharing Regulations 
and/or the  orders from the  Commission in this regard . 
1.3 Subject to provisions of Article 8.0 of the Transmission Service Agreement (TSA) 
executed by the  CTU, ISTS Licensees and the Designated ISTS Customers (DICs), 
the DICs shall pay to the CTU, in Indian Rupees, on monthly basis, the Point of 
Connection (PoC) Charges from the Effective Date (as provided in the Transmission 
Service Agreement)  or the scheduled date of injection/  withdrawal by the DIC, 
whichever is earlier , according to this Billing, Collection and Disbursement 
Procedure . 
1.4 Each DIC and  ISTS Licen see shall identify one main and one alternate  authorized 
representative who  shall interact with the CTU in matters relating to billing, Payment, 
Disbursement and Reconciliation; indicating the name, designation, postal address, 
Telephone No. (O)  and (R), Fax, Mobile No. , Fax, e-mail address , etc. for 
communication .  
1.5 The CTU shall also identify one main and one alternate authorized representative by 
name , designation, postal address, Telephone No. (O) and (R), Fax, Mobile No., Fax, 
e-mail address,  etc.  to interact with the DIC s and ISTS  Licensee s in respect of billing 
and Collection  for interaction .  
1.6 The CTU, DICs and ISTS Licensees shall furnish aforementioned nominations of 
main and alternate authorized representatives at the time of signing of TSA. It sha ll be 
incumbent upon them to convey any subsequent change in the same within three (3)  
working days of the same taking effect.  
1.7 The formats of input data and Bills shall be suitably prescribed  by CTU from time to 
time to cover various aspects of the Bills: Name and address of the person on which 
Bills are raised , category of Bill, period of the  Bill, rebate, surcharge, previous Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 4 outstanding, due date and any other terms and conditions as may be considered 
necessary from time to time.  
2.0  Billing 
2.1 Bills to be  raised for DICs  
The CTU on behalf of the ISTS Licensees shall be responsible for raising the Bills pertaining 
to the usage of the ISTS for all the DICs .   
The CTU shall raise the following Bills: 
(a) First Bill,  
(b) Second Bill,  
(c) Third Bill, and 
(d) Bill for Deviation   
Description of each of these Bills is mentioned in the following section of this  Procedure .  
2.1.1 First Bill 
2.1.1.1  The First part of the Bill shall  be raised as per  the Sharing Regulations.  
2.1.1.2  The CTU shall raise the First part of the Bill for  each DIC on the next 
Workin g day of  uploading of the Regional Transmission Accounts issued  by 
RPC in each month for the previous month.  
2.1.2 Second Bill 
2.1.2.1  The Second part of the Bill shall be raised for Approved Additional Medium 
Term Open Access  on monthly basis .  
2.1.2.2  The CTU shall raise the Second Bill  for each DIC along with the first part of 
the Bill. 
.  Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 5 2.1.3 Third Bill  
2.1.3.1  The Third  part of the Bill shall  be raised for a djustment in Yearly 
Transmission Charges  as per the Sharing Regulations.   
2.1.3.2  The CTU shall raise the Third part of the Bill for each DIC on the first 
working day of September for the period January to June and on the first 
working day of March for the period July to December.  
2.1.4 Bill for Deviation  
2.1.4.1   The Bill for deviation shall be raised as per the Sharing regulati ons. 
2.1.4.2  CTU shall raise the Bill for deviation for each DIC within three working Days 
of the issuance of the  Regional Transmission Deviation Accounts (RTDA) by 
the RPCs.  
 
2.1.5  Any miscellaneous expenses or charges subsequently approved by the Commiss ion or 
any amount required to be reconciled shall be billed to the DICs separately in 
proportion to the first part of the Bill. 
2.1.6  System Operation and other related charges shall be billed and paid by the DIC s in 
proportion to the summation of allocati on of power from ISGSs, long -term access and 
medium -term open access.  
 
2.2 Specific provisions for billing purposes  
2.2.1 In cases, as contained in the Regional Transmission Accounts , the  Bills shall be 
presented to the DICs as per the following Procedures:  
2.2.1.1  For Lon g-term demand customers availing supplies from the  ISGS , the PoC 
charges payable by such generators for such Long -term supply shall be billed  
directly to the respective Long -term demand customers availing the supplies 
based on their proportionate share of capacity in all such generating stations. 
The aforesaid mechanism shall be effective only after “commercial operation” 
of the generating station . Further t ill the date of commercial operation  of the 
generating station , the Bills shall be raised to the ISGS  and shall be payable by 
the ISGS .  Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 6 2.2.1.2  Similarly on mutual agreement, in the event a n ISGS  is obliged to pay the PoC 
Charges on behalf of Long -term DICs , then the charges payable under such 
Long -term supply shall be billed directly to the concerned ISGS based  on the 
proportionate contracted capacity of the Long -term DICs in the generating 
station.  
2.2.1.3  Notwithstanding the Clauses 2.2.1.1  and 2.2.1.2  above , in the event of par tial 
payment/ p ayment default by the DICs  above , the liability of paying the 
charges shall be extended to the original DIC for whom the charges have been 
computed.  
2.2.2 Deviation  part of the Bill, which deals with the deviation from the Approved Injection 
and A pproved Withdrawal  shall be billed directly to the concerned DIC  as per the 
Regional Transmission Accounts .  
2.3 Uploading and raising of Bills  
2.3.1 The CTU shall upload the Bills on its website to facilitate DICs to make the payment.  
2.3.2 The CTU shall also send the Bill through  registered post/courier/  fax/e -mail.  
2.3.3 The date of uploading of Bills on CTU website and the date of e -mail sent to the DICs 
shall be the date of presentation of the Bill. 
 
3.0 Payment and collection  
3.0.1  The CTU shall maintain a database o f all the  Bills raised and the payment s collect ed 
against them , for the purpose of calculating the corresponding rebates / surcharge and 
keeping track of payment outstanding against a Bill by a DIC.  
3.0.2  After raising the Bills by the CTU, the DICs shall be respons ible for payment as per 
Clause 3.2 of this procedure.  
3.1 Due date  
3.1.1  Due date in relation to any  Bill  shall mean the thirtieth (30th) day from the date on 
which such Bill  is raised and published on the website of CTU for payment by the 
DIC.  Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 7 3.2 Mode  of Payment  
3.2.1  The payment by various DICs to CTU shall  be executed through Real Time Gross 
Settlement  (RTGS) System . For this, the CTU shall open a bank account (called the 
Designated Account) for all payments to be made by the DICs to the CTU. The CTU  
shall notify all the DICs the details of such account within thirty (30) days from the 
Effective Date of the TSA. Similarly, each DIC shall also designate a bank account 
for payments that may be made by the CTU to a DIC. Each DIC shall also notify the 
CTU  of the details of such account within thirty (30) days of the Effective Date of the 
TSA . 
3.2.2 The DICs shall, on the day of payment, notify the CTU of the payment made through 
RTGS to the Designated Account. The DIC shall submit a detailed Payment Advice 
for e ach such RTGS transaction. The format for the Payment Advice shall be 
prescribed by the CTU , and the DIC shall submit the Payment Advice strictly 
adhering to such format for the Payment Advice.  Furnishing of such Payment Advice 
is mandatory for each transa ction and payment made without the accompanying 
Payment Advice shall not be recognised.  The format for Payment Advice shall 
include the following details:  
(a) Name and Code of the DIC  
(b) Month and Year of the  Bills raised during the month  
(c) Bill  nos. of First Bill, Second Bill  and Deviation Bill, as raised during the 
month  
(d) Bill no. of Third Bill, as raised half -yearly in September (for the period 
January to June) and in March (for the period July to December ). 
(e) Payment made against each Bill i.e. First Bill, Seco nd Bill, Third Bill, 
Deviation  Bill 
(f) Rebates Claimed  
(g) RTGS Transaction Code  
(h) Any other detail, as may be required for complete tracking of the Bills and the 
payment made against each  of them  Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 8 3.3 Rebates for timely payments  
3.3.1 For payment of any Bill through  RTGS, as raised by the CTU, the rebate shall be 
allowed on the qualifying amount as follows:   
(a) If payment of Bills is made within one  (1) working day of presentation of the 
Bill, a rebate of 2% shall be allowed , provided Letter of Credit is opened for 
an amo unt as mentioned in Clause 3.6.4.  
(b) Where payments are made within a period of one month of  presentation of 
Bills, a rebate of 1% shall be allowed.  
3.3.2  The applicable rates of rebates shall be as  per Tariff Regulations,  2009 as amend ed 
from time to time and any subsequent enactment made thereto . 
3.3.3 Applicable rate of rebate  shall be based on the date on which the payment has been 
actually credited to the CTU’s Designated Account. Any delay in transfer of money to 
the Designated Account on account of a st atutory holiday, public holiday, or any other 
reasons shall be to the account of the DIC concerned.  
3.4 Late P ayment Surcharge  
3.4.1  The late paym ent surcharge shall be as per Tariff Regulations,  2009 and any 
subsequent amendment made thereto.  
3.5 Disputed Bills 
3.5.1 If a DIC does not question or dispute a Bill  within thirty (30) days of receiving it, the 
Bill shall be considered correct, complete and conclusive between the DIC and the 
CTU . In the event of an error in raising a Bill, CTU shall correct the Bill or issue a 
Supplementary Bill within thirty (30) days of issuing the Bill that contained the error.  
3.5.2 If a DIC disputes any item or part of an item set out in any Bill then the DIC shall 
serve a notice (an " Bill  Dispute Notice") on the CTU setting out (i) the i tem or part of 
an item which is in dispute, (ii) its estimate of what such item or part of an item 
should be, (iii) and with all documentary evidence in support of its claim.  
3.5.3 If CTU agrees to the claim raised in the Bill Dispute Notice issued pursuant to C lause 
3.5.2 , the CTU shall revise such Bill within seven (7) days of receiving such notice Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 9 from  the disputing DIC and if the disputing DIC has already made the excess 
payment, the CTU shall credit to the disputi ng DIC, such excess amount through 
adjustment in the relevant Bill of next month  after the month in which such dispute 
was resolved.   
3.5.4 If the CTU does not agree to the claim raised in the Bill Dispute Notice issued 
pursuant to Clause 3.5.2 , it shall, within fifteen (15) days of receiving the Bill  
Dispute Notice, furnish a notice to the disputing DIC providing (i) reasons for its 
disagreement; (ii) its estimate of what the correct amount should be; and (iii) all 
documentary evidence in support of its counter -claim.  
3.5.5 Upon receipt of notice of disagreement to the Bill Dispute Notice under Clause 3.5.4 , 
authorised representative(s) of the disputing DIC and the CTU shall meet  and make 
best endeavours to amicably resolve such Dispute within thirty (30) days of receiving 
such notice of disagreement to the Bill Dispute Notice.  
3.5.6 If the disputing DIC and the CTU do not amicably resolve the dispute pursuant to 
Clause 3.5.5 , either party may approach the Commission for adjudication of dispute 
or for reference of the disputes to arbitration in accordance with Section 79(i)(f) of the 
Act. 
3.5.7 If  a  Dispute  regarding  an  Bill is settled pursuant  to Clause 3.5.5  or by Dispute 
resolution mechanism pursuant to Clause 3.5.6  in favour of the disputing DIC that 
issue d the Bill Dispute Notice, the CTU shall credit to the disputing DIC, such excess 
amount thro ugh adjustment in the relevant Bill of next month after  the  Dispute is 
either  being amicably resolved pursuant to Clause 3.5.5  or settled by Dispute 
resolution mechanism  pursuant to Clause  3.5.6 .  Alternately , if the Dispute is settled 
in favour of the CTU, then such amount as disputed shall be payable by the disputing 
DIC along with the Late Payment Surcharge , as applicable . 
3.5.8 For the avoidance of doubt, it is clarified that despite a Dispute regarding an Bill, the 
concerned DIC  shall, without prejudice to its right to Dispute, be under an obligation 
to make payment, of the lower of (a) an amount equal to simple average of last three 
(3) months relevant Bills (being the undisputed portion of such three months’ Bills) 
and (b) relevant monthly Bill which is being disputed, provided such monthly Bill  
has been raised in accordance with these Procedures.  Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 10 3.6 Letter  of Credit  
3.6.1 Not later than one (1) month prior to the Effective Date, each DIC shall, through a 
scheduled ba nk, open a  confirmed  irrevocable, unconditional and revolving  Letter of 
Credit in favour of the CTU, to be made operative from a date prior to the Due Date 
of its first Bill and shall be renewed annually.  
3.6.2 Each DIC unequivocally agrees to allow CTU to enfor ce recovery of payment under 
any Bill through the Letter of Credit provided by the DIC. In event that more than one 
Bill becomes overdue;  the amount recovered through the enforcement of Letter of 
Credit shall be appropriated against such overdue Bills on as per FIFO method . Each 
DIC unequivocally agrees to allow CTU to enforce recovery of payment through 
Letter of Credit on behalf of all the ISTS Licensees in the event of default in payment 
by the DIC, in accordance with Clause  3.6.6 .   
3.6.3 The Letter of Credit  shall have a term of twelve (12) Months and shall be for an 
amount equal to one point zero five (1.05 ) times  the average of the First Bill Amount 
for different months of the Application Period, as computed by the Implementing 
Agency  (IA) for the DIC, wher e tripartite agreement for securitization on account of 
arrears against the transmission charges with the Government  of India exist.  
Provided that where such tripartite agreement does not exist, the DIC  shall open the 
Letter of Credit for an amount equal t o two point one times (2. 10) the average First 
Bill amount for different months of the Application Period, as computed by the 
Implementing Agency  for that DIC . 
Provided that the CTU shall no t make any drawl before the 30th day after Due Date . 
Provided  fur ther  that  if  at  any  time,  such  Letter  of  Credit amount falls short of 
the amount specified in this Clause 3.6.3 , the concerned DIC shall restore such 
shortfall within seven (7) days.  
Provided the amount of Letter of Credit shall be revised in case  of revision of PoC 
charges by the IA.  
3.6.4 Each DIC shall cause its respective scheduled bank issuing the Letter of Credit to 
intimate the CTU, in writing regarding establishing of Letter of Credit.  Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 11 3.6.5 In case of drawal of the Letter of Credit by the CTU in accor dance with the terms of 
this Clause 3.6, the amount of the Letter of Credit shall be reinstated within seven (7) 
days from the date of such drawal.  
3.6.6 If any DIC fails to pay any Bill Amount or part thereof within and including the 
thirtieth ( 30th) day after Due Date, then, unless an Bill Dispute Notice is received by 
the CTU, as per  the  provisions  of  Clause 3.5.2 ,  the  CTU may  draw  upon  the 
Letter  of  Credit,  a nd accordingly the bank shall pay without any reference or 
instructions from the concerned DIC, an amount equal to the Bill Amount or part  
thereof  plus  Late Payment  Surcharge,  if  applicable,  in accordance with Clause 3.4, 
by presenting to the scheduled bank issuing the Letter of Credit, the following 
documents:  
(a) a copy of the Bill, which has remained unpaid / partially paid  by such DIC ; 
(b) a certificate from the CTU to the effect that the Bill at item (a) above, or 
specified part thereof, is in accordance with the Procedure and has remained 
unpaid /partially paid  beyond the thirtieth ( 30th) day after Due Date; and 
(c) calculations of applicable Late Payment Surcharge, if any.  
 Provided  that  the failure  on  the  par t  of  the  CTU to  present  the 
documents for encashment of the Letter of Credit shall not attract any  Late 
Payment  Surcharge  on  the  concerned DIC.  
3.6.7 Each DIC shall ensure that the Letter of Credit shall be renewed thirty (30) days prior 
to its expiry.   
3.6.8 All  charges relating  the Letter of Credit shall be borne by the DIC.  
3.7 Default in payment beyond sixty days  
3.7.1  If the payment by a DIC against any Bill raised under Billing, Collection and 
Disbursement (BCD) procedure is outstanding beyond thirty (30) days after the due 
date or in case the required Letter of Credit or any other agreed payment security 
mechanism is not maintained by the DIC, the CTU is empowered to  proceed  under 
the provisions of CERC (Regulation of Power Supply) Regulations, 2010 a nd any Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 12 subsequent amendments there to . 
3.8 Tax and other Deductions  
3.8.1  All  payments  required  to  be  made  und er  this  Procedure  shall  include any 
deduction,  as required by the Law.  
3.9 Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) Certificates  
3.9.1  All DICs are obli gated to submit the TDS certificate  for any tax deducted from 
payment against any Bill within one month from the end of the month during which 
such payment was made  or as per rules as provided under the Income Tax Act, 1961 
as modified  or amended from time  to time . 
4.0 Disbursements to the ISTS Licensees  
4.1 Categorization of  PoC charges collected by CTU  
4.1.1 The PoC charges collected by the CTU against different Bills shall be pooled into 
different Disbursement Funds / Bank Accounts  for the purpose of disbursements to t he 
various ISTS Licensees.  
4.1.2 Any delayed payment and/or late payment surcharge received against a Bill shall get 
credited  to the corresponding Disbursement Fund. Similarly, any rebates claimed or 
payment defau lts by the DICs shall stand adjusted in the corr esponding Disbursement 
Fund.   
4.1.3 The disbursements to ISTS Licensees shall be made in a pro -rated manner based on 
the Monthly Transmission Charges for the funds corresponding to the First, Second 
and the Deviation  Bill. The disbursements from the funds corres ponding to the Third 
and Supplementary Bill would be as per case -to-case basis for the ISTS Licensees.  
4.2 Bills 
4.2.1 First Bill 
(a) The payments made by DICs against the First Bill corresponding to a month 
shall be pooled into a common disbursement fund (“CF1”).  Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 13 (b) Any Late Payment Surcharge paid on first part of the Bill by the DICs 
pursuant to Clause 3.4 shall be credited to CF 1 on as and when basis.   
(c) Any rebates offered against the First Bill to the DICs pursuant to Clause 3.3 
shall be adjusted in  CF1.  
(d) This common disbursement fund (CF 1) shall  then be disbursed to the ISTS 
Licensees in proportion to their respective Monthly Transmission Charges.  
(e) Any delay in payment or part -payment or non -payment against the First Bill 
for a month by any DIC shall result in pro -rate reduction in the payouts to all 
the ISTS Licensees.  
4.2.2 Second Bill  
(a) The payments made by DICs against the Second Bill corresponding  to a 
month shall be pooled into a common disbursement fund (“ CF 2”).  
(b) Any Late Payment Surcharge paid on first part of the Bill by the DICs 
pursuant to Clause 3.4 shall be credited to CF 2 on as and when basis.  
(c) Any rebates offered against the Second Bill to the DICs pursuant to Clause 3.3 
shall be adjusted in CF 2.  
(d) The charges collected towards Second Bill shall  be reimbursed to  the paying 
DICs of First Bill (for the respective applicable month) by the next 30 days of 
receipt of such payments in the ratio of amount of First Bill in the 
corresponding month.  
(e) Any delay in payment or part  - payment or non -payment against the Second  
Bill for a month by any DIC shall result in prorate reduction in the payouts to 
all the ISTS Licensees.  
 Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 14 4.2.3 Third Bill  
4.2.3.1  Payments to be made by the DICs  
(a) The payments made by DICs against the Third Bill, as raised on the first (1st) 
Working  Day of September or March, shall be pooled into a common 
disbursement fund (“ CF 3”). 
(b) Any Late Payment Surcharge paid on Third Bill by the DICs pursuant to 
Clause 3.4 shall be credited to CF 3 on as and when basis.     
(c) Any rebates offered against the Third Bill to the DICs pursu ant to Clause 3.3 
shall be adjusted in the  CF3.  
(d) This common disbursement fund for the Third Bill (CF3) would then be 
disbursed to the ISTS Licensee(s) for whom the adjustment Bill (Third Bill) is 
required.  
(e) Any delay in payment or part -payment or non -paym ent against the Third Bill 
by any DIC shall result in prorate reduction in the payouts to the concerned 
ISTS Licensee(s) for whom the Third Bill has been raised.  
4.2.3.2  Payments to be made by the ISTS Licensees  (owing to over recovery)  
In case the adjustments in  interest rates, FERV, rescheduling of commissioning of 
transmission assets, pre-tax Return on Equity or any other component of annual fixed 
cost (AFC), etc. as allowed by the CERC results in over -recovery of transmission  
charges for any ISTS Licensee, the n, the amount  shall be Billed to respective 
transmission licensee and the same shall be adjusted against the  first part of the Bills 
raised on the DICs in the months of September and March . 
4.2.4 Bill for Deviation     
(a) The payments made by DICs against the Bill f or Deviation  corresponding  to a 
month shall be pooled into a common disbursement fund (“ CF4 “). 
(b) Any  Late Payment Surcharge paid on fourth Bill by the DICs pursuant to 
Clause 3.4 shall be credited to CF4 on as and when basis.  Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 15 (c) Any rebates offered against t he Deviation  Bill to the DICs pursuant to Clause 
3.3 shall be adjusted in the  CF4.  
(d) This common disbursement fund ( CF4) shall  then be disbursed to the ISTS 
Licensees in proportion to their respective Monthly Transmission Charges.  
(e) The charges collected tow ards Deviation Bill shall be reimbursed to paying 
DICs  of First Bill (for the respective applicable month) by the next 30 days of 
receipt of such payments in the ratio of amount of First Bill in the 
corresponding month.  
(f) Any delays in payment or part -paymen t or non -payment against the Deviation  
Bill for a month by any DIC shall result in pro -rate reduction in the payouts to 
all the ISTS Licensees.  
4.3 Tax and other Deductions  
4.3.1  All  payments  required  to  be  made  und er  this  procedure  shall  include any 
deduction, as required by the Law.  
4.4 Timelines for disbursement by the CTU  
4.4.1  The disbursement of transmission charges to ISTS Licensees for each Bill shall  be 
made within three (3) Working Days of receiving the payment from the DIC on a 
rolling basis. For the avoidance of any doubt, after the day of raising and uploading 
the Bill , any payment that is received from the DICs during a day shall be disbursed 
within three (3) Working  Days from the date of such receipt to all the ISTS Licensees 
on a rolling b asis. Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 16 4.5 Modality of disbursements  
4.5.1 The CTU shall  arrange to credit the disbursements to the bank accounts of ISTS 
Licensees directly. CTU shall enter into appropriate arrangements with its bank to 
facilitate such disbursements, as mentioned in Clause 4.4 above. However, any delays 
by the bank in relation to such disbursements unless any such delay is attributable to 
the CTU, shall be to the account of the ISTS Licensees without any liability to the 
CTU.  
4.5.2 Each ISTS Li censee shall notify within fifteen (15) days of the Effective Date of the 
Revenue Sharing Agreement to the CTU of the details of its bank account to which 
the disbursement proceeds shall be credited.  
4.5.3 CTU too shall notify within fifteen (15) days of the Eff ective Date of the Revenue 
Sharing Agreement to the ISTS Licensees of the details of its bank account to which 
any amount that is due to the CTU by an ISTS Licensee shall be  credited.  
4.5.4 All disbursements by CTU shall be executed through RTGS. The CTU shall, on the 
day of payment, notify the ISTS Licensees of the payments made to their respective 
bank accounts. Such notification shall be in the form of a detailed Payment Advice 
including the following details:  
(a) Name and identification code of the ISTS Licensee  
(b) Amount disbursed  
(c) RTGS Transaction Code  
(d) Any other detail, as deemed necessary by the CTU  
4.5.5 The cost of RTGS transactions , as mentioned above, shall be to the account of the 
concerned ISTS Licensee.  
4.6 Revenue Shar ing Statements to be submitted by CTU  
4.6.1 At the end  of each month, t he CTU shall issue a Revenue Shar ing Statement to the 
ISTS Licensees for disbursements made against the First Bill, the Second Bill  and the 
Deviation  Bill  raised during the month . These statements shall be issued by the CTU Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 17 within five ( 5) Working Days of the close of the month.  
4.6.2 The CTU shall issue a bi -annual Revenue Sharing Statement to the concerned ISTS 
Licensee for disbursement made against the Third Bill. This statement shall be issued 
by the CTU within  five (5) Working Days of th e close of the month in which such 
disbursement was made.  
4.6.3 The CTU shall upload all the Revenue Sharing Statements, as mentioned above, on its 
website on a monthly basis. It shall also mail the same through registered post  the 
receipt of which shall be ack nowledged in not more than two (2) Business Days from 
the date of receipt of the Statement. The  Acknowledgement receipt shall be in the 
form of a predefined format and shall be sent through Facsimile / e-mail to CTU.  
Upon acknowledgement, the Revenue Sharin g Statement shall be considered, as Bill  
raised by the concerned ISTS Licensee and paid by the CTU thereof.  
4.6.4 The Revenue Sharing Statement shall also be sent through e -mails to the ISTS 
Licensees.  
 
 
 Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 18 5.0 Annual reconciliation  
5.1 Annual reconciliation between the  ISTS Licensees represented by the CTU and 
the DICs  
5.1.1 At the end of each Financial Year, the CTU shall calculate the PoC charges that 
would have been payable by each DIC for each month during the preceding Financial 
Year. The CTU shall then compare the amoun t payable with the amount paid by each 
DIC for each month during the preceding Financial Year.  
5.1.2 On or before fifteenth ( 15th) May of each Financial Year, the CTU shall prepare a 
statement of reconciliation with regards to each DIC. Such statement shall spec ify the  
amount payable and the amount paid for each month during the preceding Financial 
Year.  
5.1.3 The CTU shall raise a Supplementary Bill in relation to any amount shown by the 
Reconciliation Statement to be due to the DIC . In case of any amount due  to the C TU, 
the same shall be adjusted in the Yearly Transmission Charge (to be used for the 
computation of Point of Connection charges) of the ISTS Licensees for the next 
Application Period.  
5.2 Annual reconciliation between the CTU and the ISTS Licensees  
5.2.1 At the end of each Financial Year, the CTU shall furnish the details of the 
transmission charges that shall have been payable to each ISTS Licensee during each 
month during the preceding Financial Year  and the amount actually paid to each ISTS 
Licensee . The CTU shall  then compare the amount p ayable with the amount paid to 
each ISTS Licensee for each month during the preceding Fi nancial Year . 
5.2.2 On or before fifteenth ( 15th) June of each Financial Year, the CTU shall prepare a 
statement of reconciliation with regards to e ach ISTS Licensee. Such statement shall 
specify the amount payable  and the amount paid  for each month during the preceding 
Financial Year, and in reasonable detail, the information from which such amounts 
were derived.  Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 19 5.2.3 The CTU shall issue a Supplementary Revenue Sharing Statement in relatio n to any 
amount shown by the  Reconciliation Statement to be due to the ISTS Licensee or any 
amount due to the CTU.   
5.3 In case of no response from any ISTS Licensee/  DIC within fifteen (15) days of 
publishing of statement o f reconciliation, the same shall be deemed to have been 
accepted by the ISTS Licensees and DICs  
6.0 Reporting requirements   
6.1 CTU shall furnish details of the transmission charges payable and collected on a 
monthly, bi -annual and annual basis. The periodic  reports to be submitted to each of 
the ISTS Licensees shall comprise of:  
(a) Details of total PoC charges Billed to and collected from the DICs  
(b) Details of the p ayment defaults made by the DICs  
(c) Details of Late Payment Surcharge  
(d) Details of Rebates  
(e) Details of total transmission charges disbursed to the ISTS Licensees  
6.2 These reports can be uploaded on the CTU website, for reference purposes . 
6.3 The Regional Power Committees (RPCs) shall provide the CTU with such 
information, as  required for raising 1st and 2nd Bills on DICs by the first (1st) working 
day of the month as provided in  the Sharing Regulations in the formats, as specified in 
the Annexure . 
6.4 The Regional Power Committees (RPCs) shall provide the CTU with such 
information, as required for raising deviati on Bill by 15th day of every month for the 
previous month to the CTU as provided in the Sharing Regulations in the formats, as 
specified in the Annexure . 
 Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 20 7.0 Financial Adjustment in the PoC Charges for the Long -term Access  granted to a 
DIC 
7.1 The L ong-term Access  (LTA) is granted to DICs with and/or without firm 
beneficiaries  but with target region . The scheduling for the power injection/drawl on 
first priority shall be only for that portion of the quantum for which there are firm 
long term PPAs. For the bal ance untied LTA quantum for which DIC has only target 
region, the scheduling shall be done only when DIC is granted either Medium -term 
Open Access (M TOA ) or Short -term Open access ( STOA ) for entire or part of the 
balance untied LTA quantum  from the Nodal A gency .  
Provided that t he transmission charges liability for  the DIC shall be corresponding to 
the total quantum for which LTA is granted by CTU (with or without firm 
beneficiaries). The following shall be the Financial Adjustment of the payment 
liability for MTOA and/or STOA for the quantum of the capacity for which there are 
no firm long-term PPAs.  
7.2 In case of Medium -term Open Access  
(a)  The quantum of LTA that has been granted to any DIC with only target 
regions (Non -firm) shall be scheduled only when the DIC is granted  MTOA. 
The liability for payment of transmission charges towards MTOA during a 
given month shall get incident on that DIC in the next month’s transmission 
charges Bill.  
(b) For any such MTOA with same target regions and/or beneficiaries for w hich 
LTA is granted and which is within the quantum for which such LTA was 
granted  then the MTOA transmission charges to that extent shall not be 
payable by that DIC . 
(c) For any other approved MTOA transaction more than the LTA granted to any 
DIC or which is for target regions and/or beneficiaries other than those for 
which LTA was granted then the transmission charges Bill equivalent  to 
product of quantum of MTOA and PoC rate that the node/zone applicable to 
that DIC shall be raised in the next month and the DIC shall be liable for 
payment of such charges.  Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 21 Provided that the MTOA is in the direction of  the targeted regions mentioned 
in the LTA granted to the DIC by the CTU. If the MTOA is other than the 
targeted regions mentioned in the LTA, then such MTOA, Po C charges shall 
not be adjusted against the LTA granted by the CTU and a separate applicable 
PoC charges shall have to  be paid by the DIC.  
Provided further that any Transmission charges collected towards MTOA 
transactions as per 7. 2 (c) above shall be adju sted with respect to the paying 
DICs (for the respective applicable month) by the next 30 days of receipt of 
such payments .  
7.3 In case of Short -term Open Access  
(a) The quantum of LTA that has been granted to any DIC with only target 
regions (Non -firm) shall  be scheduled only when the DIC is granted  STOA  
from concerned RLDC/NLDC .  
(b) For STOA, DIC shall have to pay applicable transmission charges to the 
RLDC/NLDC at the time of application. The payment made for the STOA 
charges for varying quantum and varying du ration  with respect to (i) bilateral 
transactions to the region of LTA granted and (ii) all collective transactions , 
shall be credited to that DIC in the next month billing subject to the upper 
limit of the amount paid as LTA charges after accounting for t he MTOA 
charges,  if any, as per 7. 2 (b) above.  
Provided that the STOA is in the direction of the targeted regions mentioned 
in the LTA granted to the DIC by the CTU. If the STOA is other than the 
targeted regions mentioned in the LTA, then such STOA, PoC charges shall 
not be adjusted against the LTA granted by the CTU and a separate applicable 
PoC charges shall have to  be paid by the DIC.  
Provided that this adjustment shall not be done for collective transaction and 
bilateral transactions done through port folio trader.  
(c) For STOA transactions not qualifying for aforementioned credit, the STOA 
charges after disbursing 25% of such transmission charges to the CTU  in Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 22 accordance with the CERC ( Open Access) in  Inter -state Transmission 
Regulation 2008 and amendmen t therof , shall be adjusted with respect to the 
paying DICs (for the respective applicable month) by the next 30 days of 
receipt of such payments.  
7.4 NLDC/RLDCs shall furnish to CTU the details of STOA by the 10th day of the 
succeeding month to the CTU fo r the purpose of reconciliation.  Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 23 Annexure  
Formats of Data to be submitted by different agencies  
                
1. Inputs to be furnished by Implement ing Agency (IA)  
                
1.1  Inputs shall be furnished by IA before the commencement of the Ap plication Period   
1.2 Inputs shall include details for each month of the Application Period   
1.3  Paying DICs are those who shall pay their part of the charges and also charges on behalf of identified 
DICs as per their mutual agreements  
              
FORMAT -1 
                  
               All figures in 
Rupees  
Sl. 
No. Code  Name of the 
ISTS  Licensee  Monthly Transmission Charges as considered for the purpose of PoC calculation  
Total  
Apr May  Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar  
                                
                                
                                
                                
                                
                                
                                
                                
                                
Total  MTC  MTC  MTC  MTC  MTC  MTC  MTC  MTC  MTC  MTC  MTC  MTC  Total 
YTC  
                  
                  
 
                                
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 24 2. Inputs to be furnished by ISTS Licensees and owners of Deemed ISTS to CTU 
          
2.1 Details for the period January to June shall be furnished by 15th day of August 
(for Bill to be raised in September ) and for the period July to December by 15th 
Day of February ( for the Bill to be raised in March ).   
 
2.2 Paying DICs are  those who shall pay their part of the charges and also charges on 
behalf of identified DICs as per their agreements   
         
          
FORMAT -2 
            
Period January to June  or July to 
December          
            
Petition No.  Name of the 
ISTS Licensee  COD of 
the Asset  Adjustment charges on account of variation of:  
Interest 
rate FERV  Transmiss
ion 
Incentive  Petition 
Filing 
fee Others*  Total 
                  
  
                  
  
                  
  
                  
  
                  
  
Total              
  
*Items need to be clearly mentioned    
Note : Documents  in support of the above may be furnished along  with the Format     
  
 
 
 Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 25 3. Regional Transmission Accounts data to be submitted by RPCs  
 
 
 
 
 MONTH……………………….  
Peak  Other Than Peak  Peak  Other Than Peak  Peak  Other Than Peak  
(a) (b) (c ) (d) (e)=(a)x(c )  (f)=(b)x(d )  (A)=(e)+(f)  
DICs  
Peak : ……. To ……. Hrs to be furnished by NLDC/NRLDC  
 Information about DIC, Zones and corresponding PoC charges will be supplied by Implementing Agency.  
 Approved Long term Injection /Withdrawal (MW) to be received from IA  
 There may be minor modifications in these formats in view of the software development in progress  Transmission Charges for  
Approved Injecti on  
/Withdrawal the month (Rs.)  Total Transmission Charges for  
Approved Injection/Withdrawal  
for the month (Rs.)  FORMAT -3: REGIONAL TRANSMISSION ACCOUNT (PART -I) 
DIC  Zone  PoC Charges (Rs./MW/  
Month)  Approved Injection  
/Withdrawal (MW)  Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 26 
Peak Other Than Peak Peak Other Than Peak Peak Other Than Peak 
DICs (a) (b) (c ) (d) (e)=(a)x(c ) (f)=(b)x(d ) (B)=(e)+(f)
Peak : ……. To ……. Hrs to be furnished by NLDC/NRLDC
Information about DIC, Zones and corresponding PoC charges will be supplied by Implementing Agency.
Approved Medium term Injection /Withdrawal (MW) to be received from RLDC/NLDC 
There may be minor modifications in these formats in view of the software development in progressTotal Transmission Charges for 
Approved Additional Medium  
term Injection/Withdrawal for the 
month (Rs.)FORMAT-4: REGIONAL TRANSMISSION ACCOUNT (PART-II)
Gen/DIC Zone PoC Charges (Rs./MW/ Month) Approved Additional Medium 
Term Injection /Withdrawal (MW) Transmission Charges for  
Additional Medium Term Injection 
/Withdrawal the month (Rs.) 
 
 
 
 
 
 Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 27  
Peak Other Than 
Peak Peak Other Than Peak Total Excess MW 
(In Peak time 
blocks) Total Excess MW  
(In Other than 
Peak time Blocks) Total Excess 
MW (In Peak 
time blocks) Total Excess MW  
(In Other than 
Peak time Blocks) Peak Other 
Than Peak TOTAL Peak Other Than Peak TOTAL
(a) (b) (c ) = (a)/ [4xNo. 
Of peak hours 
per day x No of 
days in the 
month](d) = (b)/ [4xNo. 
Of non-peak 
hours per day x 
No of days in the 
month](e) (f) (g) (h) Peak (x) Other Than 
Peak (y)(i)=(c )x 
[(e)+(x)](j)=(d)x 
[(f)+(y)](C )=(i)+(j) (k)=1.25x(c ) 
x[(g)-(x)](l)=1.25x(d) 
x[(h)-(y)](D )=(k)+(l)
DICs
Peak : ……. To ……. Hrs to be furnished by NLDC/NRLDC
Approved Additional Medium Term Withdrawal / Injection (MW) to be received from RLDC / NLDC
Actual Injection/drawal shall be received from RLDCs 
Excess Injection /Withdrawal =Approved Long term+Medium Term+short term Inj/Drawal – Actual Inj/Drawal 
Total Excess MW =Sum of Time blockwise addition of excess Inj/drawal in peak and off peak hrs.
L-Long Term, M-Medium Term, S-Short Term Injection/Drawal
There may be minor modifications in these formats in view of the software development in progressTransmission Charges for  Excess 
Injection /Withdrawal upto 120% of 
(L+M+S) in the month (Rs.)Transmission Charges for  Excess Injection 
/Withdrawal beyond 120% of (L+M+S) in the 
month (Rs.) FORMAT-5: REGIONAL TRANSMISSION ACCOUNT (PART-III)
Excess injection /Withdrawal 
beyond 120 %(MW) Excess Injection /Withdrawal upto 
120% of approved L+M+S(MW) Gen/DIC Zone PoC Charges PoC Charges
(Rs./MW/ Month) (Rs./MW/ Time Block) Certification from RPC on 
Deviation by Generators, if 
any [excess gen beyond 
120% will be treated same as 
upto 120%]         (MW)
 
 
 Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 28 
Peak Other 
Than 
Peak Peak Other Than 
Peak No of time blocks 
of negative 
Inj/withdrawal  in 
peak Average MW  
withdrawal/ 
Injection during 
peak blocks No of time blocks of 
negative 
Inj/withdrawal  in 
other than peak Average MW 
withdrawal/ 
Injection during  
off peak blocks Peak Other Than 
Peak TOTAL
(a) (b) (c ) = (a)/ 
[4xNo. Of 
peak hours 
per day x 
No of days 
in the month](d) = (b)/ 
[4xNo. Of non-
peak hours per 
day x No of 
days in the 
month](e) (f)=sum of 
negative inj or 
drawal in these 
blocks/(e)(g) (h)=sum of 
negative inj or 
drawal in these 
blocks/(g)(i)= 1.25x 
(c)x(e)x(f)(j)= 1.25x 
(d)x(g)x(h)(E)=(i)+(j)
DICs
Peak : ……. To ……. Hrs to be furnished by NLDC/NRLDC
There may be minor modifications in these formats in view of the software development in progress(Rs./MW/ Month) (Rs./MW/ Time Block) Withdrawal/Injection (MW) [Injection by demand DIC or Drawal by a 
generator]FORMAT-6: REGIONAL TRANSMISSION ACCOUNT (PART-III)
Gen/DIC Zone PoC Charges PoC Charges Transmission Charges for  drawal 
by generator and injection by 
demand customer in the month 
(Rs.) 
 
 
 Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 29 
DIC
ISGS
DIC
ISGS
DIC
ISGS
DIC
ISGSWT. AVG. ENTTs. Of Beneficieries FOR THE MONTH in CS STNS. BASED ON GOI ORDERS (%)
AA. Amount of transmission charges for raising bill of transmission charges of generators on its long term beneficieries [for Approved Long 
Term Injection]
BB. Amount of transmission charges for raising bill of transmission charges of generators on its long term beneficieries [for Approved 
Additional Medium Term Injection]
CC. Amount of transmission charges for raising bill of transmission charges of generators on its long term beneficieries [for Deviation 
below 120% of approved Long+Medium+Short Term Injection]FORMAT-7Billing, Collection and Disbursement Procedure  
 30 
FORMAT-8: NET TRANSMISSION CHARGES PAYABLE BY DICs FOR THE MONTH OF ………………….
Part-I (Transmission Charges for Approved Long term Injection /Withdrawal the month (Rs.))
DICs Transmission Charges Payable
DICs (demand) =A+AA
DICs (injection)
Part-II (Transmission Charges for Approved Additional Medium term Injection /Withdrawal the month (Rs.))
Gen/DIC Transmission Charges Payable
DICs (demand) =B+BB
DICs (injection)
Part-III (Transmission Charges for Deviation from approved Injection/Drawal)
Gen/DIC Transmission Charges Payable
DICs (demand) =C+CC+D+E
DICs (injection)
There may be minor modifications in these formats in view of the software development in progressHaving Long term beneficieries(=D+E),   Not 
Having Long term beneficieries(=C+D+E)Having Long term beneficieries(=A-AA),        
Not Having Long term beneficieries(=A)
Having Long term beneficieries(=B-BB),        
Not Having Long term beneficieries(=B) 
 
Note: As per the requirement these formats may be modified with due approval of the 
Commission.  