For Public Use 
 
Universal Service  Administrative Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request for Proposals (RFP)   
USAC SOLICITATION FOR  
 
Lifeline and Affordable Connectivity Program B usiness Process O utsourcing  and Call Center 
Services  
 
CONTRACT INFORMATION:   
 
Method of Solicitation:  Request for Proposal (" RFP”) 
Award Effective Date:   TBD  
Period of Performance:   ( 12) month base period; four (4) twelve (12) month option periods  
Solicitation Number:  LI-22-130  
Solicitation Issue Date:   September 14, 2022 
Offer Due Date:   October 19, 2022 
 
CONTRACT TO BE ISSUED BY:   
 
Universal Service Administrative Co.  
700 12th Stree t NW, Suite 900 
Washington, DC 20005 
 
USAC RFP PRIMARY CONTACT:  
 
USAC CONTACT INFORMATION  OFFEROR CONTACT INFORMATION  
Noor Jalal  
  Lead Procurement Specialist  
  P: 202-263-1616 
E: noor.jalal@usac.org  (complete)  
Name:   
POC:    
POC Title:    
POC Phone:      
POC Email:    
Address:     
 
  OFFEROR SIGNATURE   
 
  
Name  and Title  Date  
  
  (RFP) 
COVER PAGEFor Public Use 
 
 
Page 2 of 31 
 
Universal Service  Administrative Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request for Proposals (RFP) 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS  
 
 INTRODUCTION  ................................................................................................................................ 5  
 CONTRACT / PRICING STRUCTURE .............................................................................................. 8  
 SCOPE OF SERVICES  ...................................................................................................................... 10 
 MEETINGS  ........................................................................................................................................ 10 
 Project Kick -off Meeting  .................................................................................................... 10 
 Weekly Status Meetings.  ..................................................................................................... 10 
 Milestone Status Meetings.  ................................................................................................. 11 
 Operational review Meetings.  ............................................................................................. 11 
 Accessibility.  ....................................................................................................................... 11 
 Weekly Status Report (WSR)  ............................................................................................. 11 
 Monthly Steering Committee .............................................................................................. 11 
 Key Personnel  ..................................................................................................................... 12 
 OPERATIONS  .................................................................................................................................... 12 
 PERFORMANCE ............................................................................................................................... 13 
 SECURITY ......................................................................................................................................... 14 
For Public Use  
 
 
Page 3 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
 
 INSTRUCTIONS AND EVALUATION CR ITERIA  ........................................................................ 16 
 LEGAL NOTICES  .............................................................................................................................. 28 
 ATTACHMENTS  ............................................................................................................................... 31 
For Public Use  
 
 
Page 4 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
 
 
  For Public Use 
 
 
Page 5 of 31 
 
Universal Service  Administrative Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request for Proposals (RFP) 
 
 INTRODUCTION  
 
USAC is seeking  a contractor to provide customer service professional services and technology 
support for Lifeline and the Affordable Connectivity Program .  All entities who receive this RFP 
shall be referred to as an “Offeror ”.  The entity t hat is awarded the work shall be refer red to as 
“Contractor”.  Contractor must provide Business Process Outsourcing (“ BPO” ) and Call Center 
Services,  while also maintaining timely and user-friendly processes for the participants of the 
federal Lifeline program and Affordable Connectivity Program (both defined in Section 1.1).  
Contractor must demonstrate the ability to build and sustain a workforce that will become knowledgeable about policies and procedures for the Lifeline program and A ffordable 
Connectivity Program , as well as the tactical steps required to assist all program participants in a 
short time period.    
 Background 
 USAC is the administrator for the Federal Communications Commission ( “FCC” ) universal 
service programs.  The goal of the universal service programs is to ensure that all Americans have access to robust, affordable broadband and voice services.  USAC administers the Universal Service Fund ( “USF”) under the oversight of the FCC, consistent with section 254 of the 
Commun ications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. § 254 Part 54 of the Code of Federal 
Regulations; FCC orders, FCC written directives, other instructions promulgated by the FCC; and 
other laws as applicable, including government and FCC accounting requirements.  As part of its duties and subject to the FCC’s rules and oversight, USAC bills contributors to the USF, collects USF contributions, and disburses universal service support payments through the following four programs:  
 
1. The High Cost Program: provides support for connectivity in rural and underserved 
communities 
2. The Lifeline Program:  provides support to low- income consumers  
3. The Rural Health Care Program:  provides support for rural health care providers; and  
4. The E- rate Program: provides support to eligible schools and libraries and a consortia of 
eligible schools and libraries.   
 Established in 1985, the Lifeline Program (“Lifeline”)  is part of the USF and provides discount s 
to phone and broadband internet services to  over 6 million low -income households in U.S. states, 
territories , and Tribal lands. In 2021, Congress established the Affordable Connectivity Program 
(“ACP”), which provides discounts to internet service and connected devices to approximately 13 million low -income households across the U.S. states, territories, and Tribal lands.  These vital 
programs connect households to their families, communities, and emergency services.    
Working closely with the FCC, USAC has developed the National Verifier (“NV”) . The NV 
is USAC’s  centralized applicatio n system. It determines whether consumers are eligible for 
Lifeline  and ACP . USAC manages the NV and provides customer service to consumers through 
the Lifeline support c enter .  For Public Use 
 
 
Page 6 of 31 
 
Universal Service  Administrative Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request for Proposals (RFP) 
  
In order to assist with the successful operation of the N V, USAC seeks a part ner to provide BPO 
services for the N V solution, including c all center support (such as phone and webchat ), inbound 
mail processing, outbound m ail processing, outbound robo- call processing, and outbound SMS 
messaging.  
 
Description of Lifeline and ACP  
An a pplicant can apply for the Lifeline or A CP online, by completing a nd mailing a paper  
application , or with the assistance of a service provider. During the application process the 
applicant will be required to provide their name, their date of birth, the la st four digits of their 
social security number (Lifeline only),  their address, and their enrollment in specific 
governmental subsidy programs. The information provided will be used to verify the applicant’s 
identity, eligibility, and enrollment status for both programs. Once the applicant completes and certifies their application , the NV will check applicant's identity and determine whether the 
applicant is already enrolled in the National Lifeline Accountability Database ("NLAD”). If this stage is successf ul, the NV then attempts automated verification by checking several state and 
federal data sources to determine if the applicant participates in an eligible program. If the 
systematic checks fail , the applicant will be asked to provide documentation that w ill require 
manual review. If  an application is qualified (automatically or through manual document 
review) , the applicant must contact participating service providers in their area who must enroll 
them into NLAD, at which point the applicant may begin rec eiving their benefit.  
 On an annual basis, the subscribers must be re- certified at the anniversary of his or her service 
initiation date. At this point the subscriber's eligibility is re -checked through the NV's automated 
functionality; if the NV cannot verify eligibility, the applicant may complete a self -certification 
by mail, phone, or web portal.  This RFP will support Lifeline and ACP.  
 Goals 
 Contractor shall possess expertise and extensive experiencing standing up and operating a  BPO 
and customer su pport center ( “Call Center ”), including all supporting functions, and shall  fulfill 
BPO/ Call Center  performance- based Service Level Agreement ( “SLA ”) requirements ( see 
Attachment  5 -- SLA Template).  USAC will manage Contractor relationships and define SLA  
metrics for core BPO/ Call Center  work with clear timelines and budget implications (including 
incentives/credits).   
 Specifically, Contractor will perform the following functions: 
• Mail and form processing:  Process all incoming mail -related services, inclu ding paper 
mail and digital documents (HTTPS), including digitizing incoming mail and inputting it into the N V via application programming interface. For Public Use 
 
 
Page 7 of 31 
 
Universal Service  Administrative Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request for Proposals (RFP) 
 • Customer outreach: Handle outgoing consumer contacts, which will be completed 
through mail, automated email, text, and robo- call. Mail will consist of different mail 
size packets depending on outreach type.  
• C ustomer support: Provide general customer support, including but not limited to; 
application status inquiries, enrollment inquiries, and support for the annual 
recertification process (which can be completed through interactive voice response 
(“IVR” ), mail, web portal, or with a live agent). Additionally , associates may be 
requested to support applications over the phone.  
 
 Company Profile 
 USAC is a not -for-profit Delaware corporation, which works under the oversight of the FCC . 
USAC is not a federal agency, a government corporation, a government controlled corporation or other establishment in the Executive Branch of the United States Government. USAC is not a contractor to the Federal Government. The c ontract that may be awarded as a result of this RFP 
(“Contract”) will not be a subcontract under a Federal prime contract.  
 USAC does, however, conduct its procurement activities in accordance with the term s of a 
Memorandum of Understanding with the FCC, which requires USAC to adhere to the following provisions from the Code of Federal Regulations: 2 C.F.R. §§ 200.318- 321; 200.323; 200.325-326 
and App. II to C.F.R. Part 200. Additionally, any confidential or proprietary information received from or disclosed by Offeror to USAC is subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information 
Act. Information systems at USAC, including the solution proposed by the Offeror , must be 
compliant with Federal Information Se curity Management Act ( “FISMA ”) security requirements 
as a system managing f ederal funds and interfacing with Department of Treasury systems.  
 
 Place of Performance  
 A. All required Contract services must be performed within the United States at either USAC’s  
headquarters at 700 12th Street NW, Suite 900, Washington, DC 20005 ( “USAC 
Headquarters”), or such other location as USAC may approve in its sole discretion.   
B. A Contract kick- off m eeting may be held at USAC Headquarters or virtually.  Status  meetings 
and other meetings may be held telephonically or in person, at USAC’s discretion.  USAC will 
not reimburse Contractor for any travel related expenses for kick -off meetings , status meetings , 
and other meetings.  
 C. Services requiring work at USAC Headquarters will include appropriate work space and appropriate access to USAC’s computer network.  NOTE: To access USAC IT Systems, 
Contractor must first sign USAC’s IT Security Rules of Behavior Form and complete 
mandatory IT Security and Privacy Awareness Online Train ing.  Contractor may be 
required to complete Role- Based Privacy Act Training if accessing USAC information 
systems designated as federal system of records (i.e., N V and NLAD).  
 For Public Use 
 
 
Page 8 of 31 
 
Universal Service  Administrative Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request for Proposals (RFP) 
 D. Status update meetings and other meetings may be held virtually, except to the extent that 
USAC or Contractor requires in -person presence , and in accordance with USAC and 
Contractor Continuity of Operations Plan (“ COOP ”).  While attending USAC Headquarters 
for meetings or to conduct audits, Contractor staff will be considered as visitors.  All visitors 
are required to complete USAC’s Visitor Form, USAC Visitor Form , and wear a badge while 
on premises.  A ll in-person meetings will be held at USAC Headquarters or other reasonable 
locations designated by USAC. Contractor may also be required to attend meetings at the FCC 
Offices located at 45 L Street NE, Washington, DC 20554. USAC will not reimburse 
Contractor for any t ravel  related exp enses under an awarded  Contract.  
 E. Within five (5) business days , upon written request by USAC, Contractor shall provide a COOP 
including business continuity plans, disaster recovery plans, emergency operations plan and procedures, and associated plans and procedures in the event performance must be conducted 
virtually.  
 
 Confidentiality  
 
This RFP and any resultant contract are subject to the terms found in Attachment 8 
(Confidentiality Agreement)  to this RFP,  which must be executed by Offeror and submi tted 
along with any proposal to this RFP.  
 
 CONTRACT / PRICING STRUCTURE  
 
2.1 RESERVED 
 
 
2.2  Contract Type  
USAC intends to award a contract to a single Offeror .  Offeror must be willing to enter into a 
Contract with USAC for a term of up to multiple years, with no pricing structure increases during 
the term of the Contract . The Contract to be awarded to the selected Offeror  will be a hybrid firm 
fixed price ( “FFP” ), fixed unit price ( “FUP”) and variable labor rate costs (labor hour), single 
award contract. The FFP and FUP price for the work (total project and all line items) is to be set 
forth in the Offeror provided Attachment 1 ( Bid Sheet ) to the RFP . The Contract pric ing will 
include all direct and indirect costs  set forth in this RFP , including equipment, product support, 
supplies, general and administrative expenses, overhead, materials, travel, labor, taxes (including 
use and sales taxes), shipping, and profit.  USAC will not reimburse  any Offeror or  Contractor for 
any travel related expenses.    The per unit price for each service will be tiered based on increasing volume expectations, and Offeror will bid a range of volume tiers as outlined in Attachment 1, Bid Sheet.  USAC will attach credits of at least five (5) percent of variable fees for failing to re ach agreed upon goals for 
any of three (3) to five (5) critical service level agreements ( “CSLAs ”) within each billing 
period.  Details of credits and definitions of CSLAs  will be defined in contract negotiations with For Public Use  
 
 
Page 9 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
 the selected Offeror.  Offeror must ad dress any concerns with CSLAs or other milestone credits 
in its response to this proposal to minimize negotiation and contract award time.   
 In addition to the ongoing FFP and variable per unit fees, USAC will pay an initial  stand -up FFP 
("Stand -Up FFP" ) for Contractor to stand up operations by agreed upon milestone deadlines.  
The S tand- Up FFP includes all costs for preparing Contractor to take on program requirements 
described below as well as ensuring that calls from existing call centers are effectivel y 
transferred to Contractor if needed . 
 
 
2.3  Contract Term  
 The initial term of the Contract will commence on the Award Effective Date and will continue for 
twelve (12) months , unless the Contract is sooner terminated in accordance with its terms  (”Initia l 
Term”) .      
 USAC may, in its sole discretion, extend the t erm of the Contract  for up to four (4) twelve (12)  
month period s (each an “Option Term”) on the terms and conditions then in effect, by providing 
Contractor notice of USAC’s intent to extend the  term of the Contract  no later than forty -five (45) 
days prior to the expiration of the current Initial Term  or Option Term.  
 The Initial Term, together with any exercised Option Term (s), shall be referred to as the “Contract 
Term”) . 
     
2.4 Contract Pric ing 
 
USAC anticipates that the Contract will have a hybrid fee stru cture of FFP,  and FUP . The initial 
stand -up of the  BPO and  Call C enter, ongoing project management, and oversight activities will 
be fixed- price and the  BPO and  Call C enter transactions wil l be based on a per unit cost .  
 
USAC reserves the right to hire additional support for BPO and C all C enter operations as 
required to meet program needs.   In order to obtain the best value for USAC, USAC requests that bidders provide pricing in accordance with Attachment 1 (Bid Sheet).   Bidders are encouraged to present additional creative 
pricing options, along with any assumptions, that  may prove best value for USAC.  
 USAC is expecting O fferors to provide  minimum sta nd-up and ongoing monthly FFP fees , and a 
reasonable transactional price that will  not be contingent on average handle time.  
2.5 Service Level Credits  
USAC expects Contractor to perform to a high standard and deliver work of consistently high quality.  In order to ensure that Contractor meets  USAC's expectations, USAC intends to measure For Public Use  
 
 
Page 10 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
 Contractor's performance against a variety of SLAs.  The proposed SLAs are listed in Attachment 
5 (SLA Template).   
 The primary performance standards applicable to Contractor are identified below (See Section 6).  
Contractor shall present itself to all customers as USAC, not as a third -party contractor.  
 
 SCOPE OF SERVICES  
 The s cope of s ervices can be found in Attachment 2 (Statement of Work).  
 
 MEETINGS  
 Project Kick -off Meeting  
Contractor shall schedule, prepa re an agenda  for, and coordinate a p roject kick-off meeting to be 
held at USAC’s Offices, or virtually, within five (5) calendar days of execution of the Contract. 
USAC may include any additional items on the agenda it deems necessary. The project kick-off 
meeting is intended to serve as an introduction between Contractor, Contractor’s personnel that 
will perform the services set forth herein, and USAC personnel who will be involved with the project. The meeting shall provide the forum to discuss the projec t, approach and schedule, 
technical or business questions, project roles, responsibilities of the respective parties, and any project communications. Attendees at this meeting shall also include all Key Personnel  (as 
described in Section 4.8 of this RFP an d Attachment 4 ), USAC’s technical representatives, and 
any other attendees designated by USAC, including key representatives from the FCC.  USAC will not reimburse Contractor for any travel related expenses  related to the project kick -off 
meeting .  
 Contra ctor shall present the project plan to USAC for discussion.  A concerted effort shall be made 
to gain a thorough understanding of USAC’s expectations.  However, nothing discussed in this, or in any subsequent meetings or discussions between USAC and Contra ctor shall be construed as 
adding to, deleting, or modifying any Contract requirements, including deliverable specifications and due dates.  USAC will approve the p roject plan within five (5) business days. All Contract 
modifications and amendments must be  approved in writing by an authorized USAC Procurement 
representative . 
 
 Weekly Status Meetings.  
 Beginning five (5) business days after contract award, Contractor  must schedule and participate 
in weekly status meetings regarding the stand -up of the Call Ce nter. 
 
Contractor shall prepare a status report and submit it to USAC once per week.  The report must include the current status for each of the project work streams including percentage of completion, achievements, and any risks/issues relating to Contrac t performance or payment.  
The report must include an expected completion date and the circumstances surrounding any For Public Use  
 
 
Page 11 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
 possible delays.  The report shall be submitted one (1) business day before each regularly 
scheduled status meeting and no later than Frida y noon (12:00 PM ET) during weeks in which 
the meeting is scheduled for Monday or when no status meeting is scheduled.   
 
 Milestone Status Meetings.  
 
Key Personnel must be prepared to present each deliverable either in -person or virtual via 
webcast meeting , as directed by USAC.  For revision rounds, the Contractor’s K ey Personnel 
should be prepared to walk through any editing round questions via phone. 
 
Key Personnel must be prepared to provide interim deliverable updates, as requested by USAC.  
 
 Operational  Review Meetings.  
After successful stand up, USAC and Contractor will agree upon a new operational meeting 
schedule.  
 
 Accessibility.   
Key Personnel must be accessible via telephone or email during USAC’s normal business hours, Monday through Friday (9:00 AM -  6:00 PM ET).  
 
 Weekly Status Report ( “WSR ”) 
Contractor shall develop and provide a WSR using Microsoft Office Suite applications, on a weekly basis (timing to be agreed upon with USAC after kick off) via electronic mail to the USAC Contract Administra tor during Project Transition. The WSR will be used during the 
weekly status meetings to ensure Deliverables are on track.  The WSR shall include the 
following:  
a) Activities during each week by task (include on- going activities, new activities, 
activities co mpleted; progress to date on all above -mentioned activities).  Start 
each section with a brief description of the task.  
b) Problems and corrective actions taken. Also, include issues or concerns and proposed resolutions to address them.  
c) Personnel gains, losse s, and personnel security status updates.  
d) USAC actions required.  
e) Schedule (show major tasks, milestones, and deliverables; planned and actual start and completion dates for each).  
 
 Monthly Steering Committee  
  
Contractor shall schedule, prepare an agenda a nd coordinate monthly meeting with USAC / FCC 
governance body (likely containing Executive leadership, USAC C hief Financial Officer , USAC 
Chief Information Officer , and FCC representatives).  Meetings should include project status For Public Use 
 
 
Page 12 of 31 
 
Universal Service  Administrative Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request for Proposals (RFP) 
 updates, product demos, a  summary of challenges experienced by Contractor in performing its 
duties, including alternative strategies for accomplishing its tasks, as appropriate.  
 
 Key Personnel 
 
Attachment 4, Key Personnel , details the minimum personnel who shall be designated as Key 
Personnel. USAC does not intend to dictate the composition of the ideal team to perform this 
Contract. The contractor shall provide staffing for the labor category below, or the Contractor may propose other labor categories in its proposal submission. U SAC requires that Key 
Personnel be assigned for the duration of the Contract.  Key Personnel may be replaced or removed subject to special c ontract requirements, Key Personnel substitution. Any additional 
labor categories must include the associated labor hour bill rate for each additional category submitted as well as the experience and qualifications of the personnel to be assigned to that labor category.   
 
All Key Personnel and other staff to support this Contract must have employment background checks equal to those required by USAC for employees and contractors: education, n ational 
criminal, employment verification and s ocial s ecurity verifications. Contractor may propose 
additional labor categories in its proposal submission.  All proposed labor categories must include the experience and qualifications of the personnel to be assigned to that labor category.  
 OPERATIONS  
 
 Responsibilities and Requirements of Contractor 
 
The primary responsibilities and requirements of C ontractor are identified below.  
 
A. Contractor and its reviewers, staff and employees working on the USAC account shall be 
located within the United States.  
 B. Contractor shall operate its facility in accordance with all federal and state laws and regulations, to include compliance with any acce ssibility-related requirements (
Section 508 
compliance ). 
 C. Contractor shall be responsible for all work performed by any subcontractors. 
 D. Contractor shall ensure that the following are reported to USAC and included in any invoice: 
 
1. Name and address of Contractor;   
2. Invoice date, number and period of performance;   
3. Contract number For Public Use  
 
 
Page 13 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
  
4. Name and address of official to whom payment is to be sent or to notify in event of 
invoice or payment issues; and  
 
5. Any other substantia ting documentation or information as reasonably required by 
USAC.  
 
E. Electronic Communications Privacy Act  of 1986 and other similar state wiretapping laws (e.g., 
for recording customer support calls).   
F. Contractor shall forecast demand and keep strong workf orce management principles to 
maintain adequate staffing and meet performance standards described in this RFP.  
 
G. Contractor will use USAC’s Lifeline  online portal  and other USAC IT systems, to conduct the 
reviews.  However, C ontractor may suggest additiona l tool(s) that could be used to supplement 
existing tools that would drive efficiencies.  
 
H. Contractor shall ensure that the reviews team is available to program participants during regular business hours of 8am – 8pm ET (“Business Hours”).  
 
I. Contractor sha ll ensure that a supervisor is available during Business Hours to handle 
escalation, and that program participants will always be transferred to a manager upon request.  
  
 PERFORMANCE  
 
 Performance Standards  
 Contractor will perform to a high standard and de liver work of consistently high quality.  In order 
to ensure that Contractor meets USAC's expectations, USAC will measure Contractor's 
performance against a variety of SLAs .  The proposed SLAs are listed in Attachment 5 (SLA 
Template ).   
 
 Continuous Improv ement Standards  
 The primary continuous improvement ( “CI”) responsibilities and requirements of Contractor are 
identified below.  6.2.1 Contractor shall stand up a CI team with clear governance for the entire CI process, as agreed to by USAC.  
 6.2.2 Contra ctor shall facilitate  a process to collect feedback from key stakeholders to be 
approved by USAC before stand -up. 
 For Public Use  
 
 
Page 14 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
 6.2.3 Contractor shall facilitate alignment among stakeholders at USAC on CI objectives.  
 
6.2.4 Contractor shall define and quantify expected  and measurable quality and efficiency 
benefits of improvement initiatives.  
 
6.2.5 Contractor shall set up regular monthly meetings to review the improvement initiatives and their measurable impact.  
 6.2.6 Contractor shall assess the initiatives and plan f or the implementation of selected 
initiatives.  
 6.2.7 Contractor shall track and publish the measured impact of i mplemented initiatives to 
USAC.  
 
 SECURITY 
 
 Data Safeguards   
  
In providing the Services, Contractor  shall conduct itself in a manne r that safeguards USAC Data 
against destruction, loss, damage, corruption, alteration, loss of integrity, commingling, or unauthorized access or p rocessing (the “Data Safeguards”), which Data Safeguards shall be no less 
rigorous than the most protective of  (a) the requirements of applicable Law; (b) the specific 
standards set forth in this Article 7; (c) the applicable USAC s tandards relating to data security 
(including such standards and procedures relating to quality, change, and problem management, safet y, data privacy and data security, and disaster recovery), as set forth in Attachment 7 
(Security and Confidentiality Procedures) .  Each Party shall designate an individual responsible 
for coordinating data security related matters for such Party, who will  be the primary contact 
person of such party for all data security related matters under the Contract .  
  
 FedRAMP   
 In the event that c loud-based services shall be employed by Contractor and interact with USAC 
data, Contractor shall provide documentation a nd proof of accreditation to demonstrate 
compliance and shall be certified by the Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (“FedRAMP ”), or equivalent authorization, for use at a moderate risk (“Authority to Operate ” or 
“ATO”)  before Contractor goe s live.  USAC reserves the right to inspect the ATO notice for 
services certified by the FedRAMP Joint Accreditation Board ( “JAB” ) or the complete package of 
documents for those with agency accreditations.  To demonstrate compliance, Contractor shall provide a FedRAMP Security Authorization Package , or equivalent authorization, to USAC to 
include (but not limited to): System Security Plan (“ SSP” ), Security Assessment Report ( “SAR” ), 
Plan of Action and Milestones ( “POA&M ”), ATO, Contingency Planning ( “CP”) documentation, 
and Continuous Monitoring Plan. CP  documentation to include (but is not limited to): Information 
System Contingency Plan ( “ISCP ”), Business Continuity Plan ( “BCP ”), Business Impact Analysis 
(“BIA” ), and COOP.  USAC prefers that Contractor host the solution in a FedRAMP accredited, For Public Use  
 
 
Page 15 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
 government cloud- based environment.  Regardless of hosting approach, the solution must be able 
to achieve FISMA accreditation prior to going live.   
 
 Personally Identifiable Information  (“PII ”) 
 Contractor’s information systems, applications and processes shall be approved by USAC’s security team.  Contractor shall write, review, and update an assessment of all applicable Federal 
mandates, including, but not limited to FISMA and most recently released revision of NIST 800-
53, Revision 5 or later revision (Security and Privacy Controls for federal Information Systems 
and Organizations), including Appendix J, NIST privacy controls – or the most current revisions 
of the aforementioned documents , to ensure adherence to NIST , FISMA, OMB, FCC, USAC, and 
other industry- accepted standards.  Data and documentation collected will include personally 
identifiable information ( “PII”), including names, addresses, email addresses, phone numbers and 
commercial banking information and ot her confidential business information. PII shall be 
protected in accordance with all federal and USAC requirements, including, but not limited to, the most current revision of the following: OMB Circular No. A -130, OMB Memoranda M -06-16 and 
guidance from t he NIST, including NIST SP 800- 53 Rev. 5 (Security and Privacy controls for 
Federal Information Systems and Organizations) and NIST SP 800- 122 (Guide to Protecting the 
Confidentiality of Personally Identifiable Information) – or the most current revisions of the 
aforementioned documents.  All privacy and/or security- related incidents including, but not limited 
to, the disclosure of PII, shall be tracked in accordance with policy standards as outlined in the Incident Response ( “IR”) controls documented in mo st recently released revision of NIST 800- 53, 
Revision 5 or later revision and NIST SP 800 -61 and consistent with the requirements of OMB 
Memoranda M- 17-12 – or the most current revisions of the aforementioned documents.  The 
Incident Response Plan ( “IRP”) shall include reporting to USAC’s Privacy Officer and to USAC’s 
Director of Information Security or designated representative within one (1) hour of any breach or suspected breach of PII.  Failure to notify USAC’s aforementioned representatives will result in USAC receiving a service level credit outlined in Attachment  4 (SLA Template).  
 
 Encryption and Secure Storage   
 Contractor shall ensure that USAC Data, Confidential Information, and PII are encrypted at all 
times in accordance with Federal Informatio n Processing Standards (FIPS) 140- 3 standards. This 
encryption requirement includes both Data at Rest (i.e., stored on a hard drive, CD, D VD, thumb 
drive, etc.) and Data in Transit (i.e., via email or other electronic means). Any PII that is retained in any formats must be stored in a secured location and with limited access. The standard for 
disposal of PII requires practices that are adequate to protect against unauthorized access or use of the PII, including at minimum shredding or burning papers contain ing PII and securely erasing 
(using U.S. Department of Defense standards or the equivalent) electronic files and other media containing PII.  
 
 Contractor Vulnerabilities  
 For Public Use  
 
 
Page 16 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
 Contractor shall address vulnerabilities in accordance with NIST vulnerability managem ent 
controls. Contractor shall address vulnerabilities in the applicable timeframes set forth in such 
policies.  Contractor shall provide a monthly vulnerability report and a risk mitigation plan to address any identified vulnerabilities. Critical and high  vulnerabilities shall be reported to the 
USAC Chief Information Security Officer ( “CISO”), or designee , and mitigated within thirty (30) 
days of being identified.  In the event that Contractor cannot meet the applicable timeframe, Contractor shall provide  USAC a plan of action and develop milestones to address such 
vulnerabilities promptly, and shall prioritize remediation based on the risks implicated by such vulnerabilities.  Failure to meet the applicable timeframe will also result in USAC receiving a service level credit outlined in Attachment 5 (SLA Template). 
 
 Further Requirements  
 Contractor’s Services, and Contractor ’s applications, processes and systems used in the 
provisioning of Services, shall be approved by USAC’s IT Security Team and shall com ply with 
FISMA, NIST, and OMB requirements .   
 
 Notification and Assistance  
 
Contractor shall cooperate with USAC in any litigation and investigation against third parties 
deemed necessary by USAC to protect USAC Data, other USAC Confidential Information a nd/or 
PII. Each Party will bear the costs it incurs as a result of compliance with this Section.  
 
 INSTRUCTIONS AND EVALUATION CRITERIA  
 
 Master Services Agreement Contract Terms  
 The Contract awarded as a result of this RFP will be governed by, and subjec t to, terms and 
conditions  closely based upon the  Master Services Agreement  set forth in Attachment 10 (Master 
Services Agreement ) and all attachments herein.  Offeror’s submission of a proposal constitutes 
its agreement to the Master Services Agreement  and their precedence over any other terms, 
requirements, or conditions proposed by O fferor.  
 Offeror’s proposal shall identify exceptions or additional terms (collectively “ Exceptions”) to the 
Master Services Agreement . Exceptions will be considered only if  they are clearly identified in a 
separate Attachment B  to Volume II, titled  “Exceptions to RFP Terms.”  Proposals that include 
material exceptions to the Master Services Agreement  may be considered unacceptable and render 
Offeror ineligible for award unles s Offeror withdraws or modifies any unacceptable exceptions 
prior to USAC’s selection of the successful O fferor for award.  USAC will only review changes 
or additions to the Terms and C onditions  that are included in O fferor’s proposal. USAC will not 
consider or negotiate any exceptions to the Master Services Agreement  not included in Offeror’s 
proposal .   
 For Public Use  
 
 
Page 17 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
 
 Period of Acceptance of Offers  
 
Offeror shall ensure that its proposal remains valid for 120 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers,  unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation.  
 Offeror’s shall ensure that its proposal:  
 
A. Concisely address es USAC’s requirements, as set forth in this RFP, and should not 
contain a significant amount of corporate boilerplate  marketing information.  
 
B. Is submitted to the USAC Procurement Department no later than 11:00 AM ET on 
October 19, 2022 (“Proposal Due Date”).  
 
C. Is submitted in the form of one electronic copy,  submitted to  rfp@usac.org.  The subject 
line for all email communication s related to this solicitation should only state the 
Solicitation Number of this RFP. 
 
To be timely, O fferor’s proposal must be received by USAC by the P roposal Due Date at the email 
address specified above. A ny offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer receive d by 
USAC after the P roposal Due Date and time is “late” and will not be considered by USAC  - unless 
USAC determines, in its sole discretion, which circumstances beyond the control of Offer or 
prevented timely submission, or  consideration of the offer is in the best interest of USAC. 
Proposals, once submitted, cannot be withdrawn for 120 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers, except with the written consent of USAC.  
 
 Submission of Questions  
 USAC will only accept written questions  regarding the RFP.  All questions must be emailed to 
rfp@usac.org no later than September 22, 2022 at 11:00 AM Eastern Time (ET).  USAC plans to 
post all questions and responses under this procurement on our website on September 27, 2022 at 
5:00 PM ET.   
   
 Amend, Revise, or Cancel RFP  
 USAC reserves the right to amend, revise or cancel this RFP at any time at the sole discretion of USAC, and no legal or other obligations are assumed by USAC by virtue of the issuance of this 
RFP, including payment of any proposal costs or expenses, or any commitment to procure the services sought herein.  
 
 Documentation Requirements  
 Each document deliverable shall be submitt ed in an acceptable electronic unprotected format, 
using Microsoft® Excel, Microsoft® Word, Microsoft® Project Professional, PDF, or any other format that is mutually agreed upon by USAC and Offeror. For Public Use  
 
 
Page 18 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
  
 RFP Key Dates  
 
DATE  EVENT  
September 14 , 2022  RFP Relea sed 
September 22 , 2022  Questions Due to USAC by 11:00 AM ET at rfp@usac.org   
September 27 , 2022  Answers posted by USAC  by 5:00 PM ET  
October 19 , 2022  Proposal Due to USAC by 11 :00 AM ET at rfp@usac.org   
November 1 -4, 2022  Demonstrations / Offeror  Discussions  
November 9 , 2022  Final Proposal Revisions and Best and Final Offers Due by 
11:00 AM ET at rfp@usac.org   
November – December , 2022  Contr act Negotiations  
January , 2022  Anticipated Kick Off  
 
 Contract Award  
 
USAC will evaluate proposals and may award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the Offeror whose offer will be most advantageous to USAC. USAC may reject any or all offers if  
such action is in the public’s or USAC’s interest . USAC need not accept  the lowest offer . USAC  
may waive informalities and minor irregularities in  any or all  offers received.  
 
 Identification of Confidential Information  
 Offeror’s proposal shall clearly an d conspicuously identify information contained in the proposal 
that Offeror  contends is confidential information.  
 
All deliverables submitted by Offeror  to USAC are considered Confidential Information of USAC 
(as defined in Attachment 8) and are the sole property of USAC.  USAC may use, copy, distribute 
or disclose the deliverables in its sole discretion.   
 Proposal Cover Page  
 Offeror must ensure that its proposal contains a cover page that includes the following information:  
 A. The name of O fferor’s organ ization;  
B. Offeror’s contact name;  
C. Offeror’s contact information (address, telephone number, email address, website address);  
D. Offeror’s UEI number;  
E. The date of submittal;  
F. A statement verifying the proposal is valid for a period of 120 days; and  
G. The signature of a duly authorized O fferor representative.  
 For Public Use  
 
 
Page 19 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
 
 Proposal Content  
 
The proposal shall be comprised of the following five (5) volumes, numbered Volumes I, II, III, IV, and V.  All text shall be twelve (12) point font, and page limits shall be followed as  indicated.  
Corporate Information (Volume I) – Limit to three (3 ) single -spaced pages, excluding financial 
statements.  
Each Offeror  should provide a summary of any corporate information relevant to this RFP, which 
should include, at minimum:  
1. Length of time  in BPO /Call Center  business;  
2. Place(s) of incorporation of business;  
3. Place(s) where the Offeror  conducts business, including primary place of business;  
4. Percentage and number of relevant employees / contractors in the U.S. and any other countries;  
5. Number of  intellectual property infringement suits brought against the Offeror  in the 
last five (5) years, including brief description of the nature and status of such disputes (e.g., settled, under active litigation); and 
6. Recent financial statements, including:  
a) Audited balance sheet, cash flow statement, and income statement for previous 
three (3) fiscal years, and  
b) Quarterly financial statements prepared since previous year end financial statements.  
Technical (Volume II) – Word / page limits as indicated per sectio n 
1. Differentiators  
Each Offeror  shall provide a brief summary of its qualifications to provide the described BPO /Call 
Center  services for USAC, including any unique differentiators . Differentiators may include  
employee -hiring  practices , practices  to retain experience d staff, staff training, methods the Offeror 
uses to maintain high quality standards  and staff proficiency , and ability to staff for variable 
volumes of services .  If Offeror intends to partner with another firm that will act as a subcontractor 
for the performance of any task related to the solicitation, Offeror shall include the identity and 
qualifications of the subcontractor, any potential conflicts of interest, the scope of the services to be subcontracted, and documentation evidencing that the proposed subcontractor has a demonstrated history of providing excellent services within the scope of services proposed to be subcontracted.  This summary should be no more than 250 words. 
2. Summary of Project Approach  
Each Offeror  shall submit a summary of its approach for the provision of scalable, reliable, and 
high- quality BPO /Call Center services for Lifeline and ACP .  Offeror shall identify its For Public Use  
 
 
Page 20 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
 methodology for accomplishing the deliverables in this RFP, as well as any deliverables or work 
efforts not included in the RFP solicitation that should be included to assure success in developing or implementing a core curriculum.  The methodology should also include the requirements laid out in the Transition Plan ( Attachment 2, Section 9 ), and meet designated  Milestones set forth in 
Attachment 9  (Transition Milestones) .  
 The described approach should include a quality assurance plan indicating all key metrics and KPIs Contractor will be measuring, including explanations of how the metrics are measured as applicable (e.g., how Offeror  track s such as completion of "first call resolution").  Each Offeror  
shall also describe plans to regularly survey customer satisfaction (including sampling rate and in line with requirements set forth in the Paperwork Reduction A ct) and allow auditing of contact / 
review quality by USAC.  This summary should be no longer than fifteen (15) single -spaced pages 
of text, including any diagrams.   
3. Key Personnel  
As part of its RFP response, each Offeror  shall provide resumes for each of  its Key Personnel, 
including subcontractors if proposed, for all roles listed in A ttachment 4  (Key Personnel ).  Each 
Key Personnel will be listed with the percentage of their expected dedication  to the project.  Each  
resume will set forth the years of rel evant experience and other material information regarding the 
Key Personnel.  Limit each resume to 2 single -spaced pages.  
Each Offeror  shall provide an organizational chart identifying its proposed team structure, 
including roles and responsibilities of those employees who would be assigned lead 
responsibilities.  
Each Offeror  shall provide resumes of reviewers, supervisors, and training leader.  
Each Offeror shall identify in its response the names and citizenship s of all non- U.S. citizens 
proposed to work under the contract.  Any additions or deletions of non- U.S. citizens after contract 
award shall also be reported to USAC, and non- U.S. citizens shall not be authorized to work under 
the contract without USAC’s prior written consent.  
If Offeror, at time of proposal and/or prior to the award of the contract, has information that any 
such Key Personnel anticipates terminating his or her employment or affiliation with Offeror , 
Offeror shall identify such personnel and include his or her expected termination dat e in its 
proposal.  
4. Contractor Capability Template  
Each Offeror  shall respond to a series of questions regarding capabilities and components offered 
in Attachment 3  (Vendor Capability Checklist ).  For prompts that request a yes/no response, 
Offeror must re spond to each prompt with "Yes" or "No" as indicated on the a ttachment.  For 
prompts that request a free- form response, Offeror must indicate its response as appropriate (e.g., 
with a number, or by indicating the use of certain technologies); in no case should these responses For Public Use  
 
 
Page 21 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
 exceed 15 words per prompt .  An Offeror  may provide, but is not required to provide, additional 
explanatory notes regarding each prompt; such notes may not exceed 40 words per prompt . 
5. SLA Proposal  
A list of SLAs is included in  Attachme nt 5 (SLA Template).  Each Offeror  shall fill out this tab 
according to the following instructions:  
 
A. Best Fit SLA: Please insert the closest SLA to the corresponding “ USAC Proposed SLA ” 
that you will commit to provide as part of this bid.  USAC expects eac h “Best Fit SLA ” 
provided to meet or exceed the corresponding “ USAC Proposed SLA ”.  If Offeror  lists an 
SLA that does not meet or exceed  the corresponding “ USAC Proposed SLA ”, please 
explain why in the “ Notes ” column.   
 
B. Optimized SLA: Please insert SLAs according to what you believe you could provide if 
you optimized processes across all SLAs to provide the best possible value for USAC, according to your experience, current processes, and the associated pricing structure. Such optimization will be considered after the first year of the contract.  
 
Offeror may provide, but is not required to provide, additional explanatory notes regarding each SLA; such notes may not exceed  40 words per line item . These notes should include specifics on 
the price effect of altering the SLA up or down, if relevant.  USAC will request a separate price 
bid for the “ Best Fit SLAs ” and “ Additional Requested SLAs ”, as instructed in Attachment 1 . 
6. RESERVED  
 
7. Specific Prompts  
In addition to the responses listed above, Offerors  shall pr ovide short responses to the following 
questions, in accordance with the word count limits provided:  
(1) What will be included in the stand -up phase for the BPO efforts? How would your team 
collaborate with USAC to integrate with NV systems? We would expect yo ur plan to at 
least include: (300 word limit)  
a. Collaborating with USAC to design and pressure test BPO -related process flows 
b. Working with USAC to seek and incorporate external stakeholder feedback on design of BPO processes and systems 
c. Training staff on USA C process flows 
d. Testing and evaluating system/processes to identify and resolve issues before launch   
 
(2) What is your staffing model to surge resourcing as needed (e.g., percentage of subcontracted vs. internal vs. new hires, number of dedicated and non- dedicated staff, what For Public Use  
 
 
Page 22 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
 location(s) staff are pulled from, training of non- dedicated staff) and/or plan for volume 
variability )? Please provide instances where you were able to significantly surge 
development staff with numbers of staff added vs. base effort. (2 50 word limit)  
(3)  What specific fraud prevention capabilities could you build into your services to aid USAC 
and the FCC in our goal of preventing waste, fraud, and abuse? Please indicate if you have 
included the services in the proposed bid or expect the capabilities to be next -gen functionality 
that can be added in the future as desired by USAC.  (500 word limit)  
(4) Are there other considerations that would allow you to offer a better price to USAC while 
maintaining similar quality?  Please enumerate a ny recommendations for alternative contract 
and pricing structures that you believe could offer better value to USAC, including any specific alternative models to tiering prices by monthly volume actuals. (400 word limit)  
(5)  Please describe your experien ce standing up Call Centers  and tools with federal agencies,  
and demonstrat e your expertise in navigating federal requirements such as those associated 
with the Federal Information Security Management  Act ( “FISMA ”). (500 word limit) 
8. Facilities Information  
As part of Offeror’s  RFP response, please describe each facility from which you intend to provide 
services, including the location, approximate number of people who will provide services from that location, and other relevant information.  Please include a  description of security measures 
(physical and/or logical) in place at each facility in which you plan to work to ensure PII is handled with care by your staff.  (400 word limit)  
9. Conflicts of Interest  
 Provide a description of any potential conflicts of i nterest (as described in Section 9.3) including 
(a) the nature of the potential conflicts and (b) the nature of the means by which you propose to avoid, neutralize, or mitigate such conflicts.  (150 word limit)  
Past Performance Information (Volume III) – Limit to ten (10) single -spaced pages including 
diagrams. 
Each Offeror  shall describe two (2) to four (4) examples of similar BPO or C all Center  support 
services that Offeror has provided for similar -sized BPO and Call Center operations in the past 
five (5 ) years.  Where the example(s) of similar BPO or C all Center  support services were with 
clients with federal government security requirements (e.g. FISMA, NIST, OMB guidance) , please 
state so explicitly.  It is expected that the K ey Personnel pr ovided accor ding to Attachment 4 (Key 
Personnel) will have been heavily involved in at least one (1) of the provided examples of past 
performance.  
Past performance information should specify details across two broad areas:  For Public Use  
 
 
Page 23 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
 a. Program Oversight  – build of a program simil ar in nature to the required  BPO and Call 
Center  activities, including details on speed to ramp up each activity and process 
improvement to reduce manual work and improve efficiency and reporting.  
b. Recent and Relevant:  This will be evaluated based on Offer or’s discussion of its past 
performance for similar efforts, information obtained from O fferor’s references 
(including detailed references for O fferor’s proposed teaming partner(s) and/or 
subcontractor(s), as applicable) and information that may be obtaine d from any other 
sources (including government databases and contracts listed in Offeror’s proposal that 
are not identified as references).  
Each Offeror  shall provide three (3) references for whom Offeror provided similar services in the 
past five (5) year s, including contact information for Offeror’s point of contact at each reference.  
If required by a reference, Offeror  shall provide written permission for a reference to discuss its 
performance with USAC.  If the past performance referenced in this volum e is that of a 
subcontractor being proposed, Offeror  shall clearly state that the reference is that of the 
subcontractor and not Offeror . 
USAC will attempt to contact past performance references identified in the proposal for confirmation of the informatio n contained in the proposal and/or will transmit a past performance 
questionnaire to the contacts identified in Offeror ’s proposal.  Although USAC will follow -up with 
the contacts, Offeror, not USAC, is responsible for ensuring that the questionnaire is completed and returned by the specified date in USAC’s transmission.  If USAC is unable to reach or obtain a reference for the project, USAC is not obligated to consider the contact in an evaluation of past performance.  
Price Proposal (Volume IV)  
1. Each Offero r shall provide the best financial proposal to complete the work for the duration of 
the contract term based on the proposed work plan.  Identify any assumptions made to create the Price Proposal.  Travel or other costs must be factored into the bid, as no additional fees 
will be paid to perform this work.  Each Offeror  will provide the following: A bid with a 
combination of fixed and transactional pricing for the entire scope of work outlined in the RFP.  Offeror shall propose the following prices in the bid sheet (Attachment 1):  
 
a. Stand -up FFP – Fixed fee to cover all cos ts for initial set up of the  work. 
 
b. Ongoing FFP – P rovide fixed fee pricing, to cover monthly costs of providing set contract 
requirements, including project management, reporting, auditing, and continuous improvement. 
 
c. Variable fee – Fees to cover per unit service costs for services outlined in A ttachment 2, 
SOW ; Offeror shall include all costs for provisioning the services described in the proposal.  
Any cost not indicated here will be considered included at no cost to USAC.  Offeror may 
provide prices for additional services as desired, but this is optional.  Each Offeror  may For Public Use  
 
 
Page 24 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
 propose pricing tiers for each service if they wish to do so.  The variable fee will include 
at a minimum the activ ities/services as detailed in Attachment 1 (Bid Sheet ): 
 
d. Improvement terms – Percentage of per unit variable or per service fixed fee that Offeror  
will commit to reducing annually.  
 e. CSLA Service Level Credits – Percentage of total fixed or variable fee that will not be paid 
if Offeror  fails to meet the minimum performance on any of the CSLAs for a particular 
month. 
 
2. In addition to the two pricing structures mentioned above, bidders are encouraged to propose additional creative pricing structures that will b e cost -effective for USAC.   
Insurance (Volume V)  
Contractor shall obtain and maintain at its own cost and expense and shall require its subcontractors to obtain and maintain at their own cost and expense insurance of the type set forth below.    In this V olume, please indicate the level of insurance coverage to be maintained by Offeror  during 
the Contract  Term  the following categories of insurance, and supply a copy of the insurance 
certificate(s).    The level of insurance shown in brackets are USAC’s req uired  coverage limits.   
1. Worker’s Compensation:  
(a) State: Statutory  
(b) Employer’s Liability US$1,000,000 per accident  
 
2. Commercial  General Liability:  
(a) US$1,000,000 Per Occurrence on a Per Project or Per Location Basis  
(b) US$2,000,000 General Aggregate  
(c) US$2,000,000 Pr oducts Completed Operations  
(d) US$1,000,000 Personal & Advertising Injury  
 
3. Commercial crime coverage including employee dishonesty, forgery, or alteration, inside 
the premises, outside the premises, computer fraud, funds transfer fraud and coverage for loss o f USAC’s property resulting from any other covered cause. 
(a) US$10,000,000 Per Occurrence  
(b) US$10,000,000 General Aggregate  
 
4. Automobile Liability Insurance (owned, not owned or hired) in the amount of $1,000,000 
Combined Single Limit.  
 
5. Umbrella Liability Insura nce providing excess liability for items Worker’s Compensation, For Public Use  
 
 
Page 25 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
 Employer’s Liability; Comprehensive General Liability; and commercial crime coverage 
as noted above in subjections 1(b), (2), and (3).  Coverage to be at least as broad as the primary program:  
 
(a) Each occurrence, and Aggregate US$1 5,000,000 
 
6. Professional Liability (errors and omissions) and Cyber Liability  (If applicable based upon 
the Scope of Work for each Task Order)  
  (a) Each incident  and a ggregate US  $25,000,000  
 
 Insurance shall be maint ained for not less than three (3) years after the Contract Term .  Evidence 
of coverage shall be provided to USAC on an annual basis.  
Evaluation  
Evaluation Criteria  
USAC will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible Offeror  whose  offer 
conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to USAC, price and other factors considered.  The following factors  shall be used to evaluate  offers and select the C ontractor: Price, 
Past Performance, Technical, and Transition Management.  Each Offeror ’s response to the Master 
Service Agreement  and associated shift in risk to USAC will be included in overall evaluation.  
Price: The most important priority guiding the evaluation of t he RFP responses will be price. 
Pricing will be evaluated acr oss three areas:  
Fixed component – base costs charged to USAC regardless of volume, including but not 
limited to program management, reporting capabilities, and investment in continuous improvement. 
Variable component – costs charged to USAC, or reductions  in those costs, as a function 
of volume (e.g., per transaction / contact / document).  As volume rises, unit costs should 
decrease in each volume tier . 
Structural component  – modifications to costs charged to USAC based on Offeror  
performance (e.g., servi ce level credits due to missed KPI targets), or over time (e.g., cost 
efficiencies from continuous improvement). 
Offeror will be expected to confidently bid toward meeting established SLAs, with reduced fees 
when these targets are not met.  
Unit costs shoul d decrease as Contractor captures efficiencies due to continuous improvement, and 
significant gains in cost efficiency over and above committed improvement are expected to be shared equitably between Contractor and USAC.  For Public Use  
 
 
Page 26 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
 Past Performance:  Past performance information will be evaluated to assess the risks associated 
with each Offeror ’s potential performance of this effort, considering the relevance, r ecency (within 
the past five  (5) years), and quality of Of feror’s past performance on past or current contrac ts for 
the same or similar services.  USAC will also consider whether Offeror  has successfully executed 
contracts of a similar size, has a record of continuous improvement over time , including through 
technological innovation, and/or has experience working with similar programs.  Past performance 
information will be evaluated across six (6) broad areas:  
● Program Oversight  – build of a program similar in nature to the required BPO and 
Call Center  activities, including details on speed to ramp up each activity and 
process improvement to reduce manual work and improve efficiency and reporting.  
● Recent and Relevant:  This will be evaluated based on Offeror’s discussion of its 
past performance for similar efforts, information obtained from O fferor’s 
references (including detailed references for O fferor’s proposed teaming partner(s) 
and/or subcontractor(s), as applicable) and information that may be obtained from 
any other sources (including government databases and contracts listed in Offeror’s proposal that are not  identified as references).  
● Past SLA performance – success in meeting SLAs promised to previous clients.  
● Customer support – provision of BPO and Call Center  services for previous 
clients across all channels.  
● Document processing  – processing inbound documents on behalf of a client.  
● Demographic experience – prior work with similar programs (e.g., government 
entitlements) or with reaching and / or working with customers whose demographics are similar to the Lifeline and ACP  base, large and small service 
providers and healthcare facilities.  
This will be evaluated based on Offeror ’s discussion of its past performance for similar efforts 
(including a detailed mock- up of costs, project timeline, and illustrative materials from a similar 
project) information obtaine d from Offeror ’s references (including detailed references for 
Offeror’s proposed teaming partner(s) and/or subcontractor(s), as applicable) and information that may be obtained from any other sources (including government databases and contracts listed in Offeror’s proposal that are not identified as references).  
Technical:  USAC expects that all Offerors  will meet a variety of technical criteria. For example, 
all Offerors  will need to discuss their ability to perform against a variety of metrics / SLAs (e. g., 
manual review time, service level ), and they will also need to discuss their core technical 
capabilities (e.g., ability to process incoming mail).  Finally, Offeror’s  must demonstrate that they 
have incorporated sufficient redundancies into their opera tions.  Technical information will be 
evaluated across four (4) broad areas:  
● SLAs – Offeror’s agreed SLAs, and how they compare to the SLAs desired by 
USAC, set  forth  in Attachment 4 (SLA Template).  For Public Use  
 
 
Page 27 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
 ● Capabilities  – Offeror ’s ability to meet the capabilities  outlined in the capability 
template set forth in Attachment 3 (Vendor Capability Checklist).  
● Scalability – Offeror’s ability to quickly ramp up (or down) capacity.  
● Redundancy – Offeror ’s disaster recovery plans, ability to provide highly reliable 
/ continuous service, and wide geographic reach (e.g., ability to serve multiple time 
zones easily).  
Transition Management:  Offeror  must demonstrate the ability to successfully ramp up operations 
and to successfully support USAC in transitioning operations to anot her vendor or USAC staff 
should USAC choose to modify its relationship with Contractor.  Contractor may be required to integrate these new features, and must demonstrate the ability to do so . Transition management 
will be evaluated across three broad areas : 
● Ramp -up – Offeror’s ability to quickly and comprehensively stand up operations, 
including initial technical integration, trainings, etc.  
● Ability to integrate new features  – Offeror’s ability to integrate new features with 
existing processes as the new features are released.  
● Transition support – Offeror’s ability to support USAC in transitioning operations 
to USAC staff should USAC choose to modify its relationship with the awarded  
Contractor or to another vendor should USAC decline to renew its relationship with 
the awarded  Contractor at the end of the C ontract Term.  
 
 Down -Select Process  
 USAC may determine that the number of proposals received in response to this RFP are too numerous to efficiently conduct a full evaluation of all evaluation factors prio r to establishing a 
competitive range. In such a case, USAC may conduct a down- select process to eliminate O fferors 
from further consideration based on a comparative analysis of O fferor proposals, with primary 
focus on the price proposal . USAC may, in its sole discretion, consider other factors such as quality 
of proposal, technical capabilities and past performance. Proposals that include proposed prices that are significantly higher than the median proposed price for all O fferors may be excluded from 
the competition without evaluation under the other evaluation factors.  Proposals that contain 
prices that are unrealistically low in terms of sufficiency to perform the awarded Contract may 
also be excluded from the competition.  
 Discussions  
 USAC may hold di scussions with  the highest rated O fferors .  Discussions will include issues 
related to the Offeror’s Technical, Past Performance, and Price proposals , and include a targeted 
demonstration of USAC provided use cases  and data .  Information for inclusion in discussions will 
be provided by USAC in advance .   
 For Public Use  
 
 
Page 28 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
 Offers that take material exceptions to RFP requirements, including the Master Services 
Agreement , will be evaluated as technically unacceptable and will be ineligible for award unless 
USAC subsequently am ends the RFP to modify the requirements , or if discussions are  held, 
decides to address the exceptions during discussions and thereby resolves the exceptions . 
 
 Final Proposal Revisions and Best and Final Offers  
 
After conclusion of discussions, Offerors may be invited to submit final proposal revisions 
(“FPR”) and best and final offers ( “BAFO” ).  At this time, O fferors can make changes to their  
proposal submissions to address questions and concerns,  and competitive pricing specifically 
addressed in discussi ons.  FPR ’s and BAFO’s will be due no later than November 9, 2022 at 11:00 
AM ET.  
 
 Competitive Negotiation Using Best Value Selection  
 This solicitation will be conducted using “ Best Value Selection ” that results in an award that is 
most advantageous to U SAC based on the best value combination of: (a) evaluated qualitative 
merit and (b) evaluated price (cost) of the offers submitted. Best Value Selection is based on the premise that, if all offers are of approximately equal qualitative merit, award will be  made to the 
Offeror with the lowest evaluated price (cost). However, USAC will consider awarding to an 
Offeror with a higher evaluated price (cost) if the offer demonstrates the difference in price (cost) 
is commensurate with the higher qualitative merit.  Conversely, USAC will consider awarding to 
an Offeror with a lower evaluated qualitative merit if the price (cost) differential between it and 
other offers warrant s doing so. 
 
 Responsibility Determination  
 USAC will only award Contracts to a responsible O fferor. USAC will make a responsibility 
determination based on any available information, including information submitted in an O fferor’s 
proposal. In making a responsibility determination USAC will consider whether:  
 
A. Offeror has sufficient resources to perform the Contract;  
B. Offeror has a satisfactory record of performance, integrity , and business ethics;  
C. Offeror has the accounting systems and internal controls, quality assurance processes and organizational structure , and experience necessary to assure tha t contract work will be 
properly performed and accurately invoiced; and 
D. Offeror has the facilities,  and technical and personnel resources required to perform the 
Contract.  
 
 LEGAL NOTICES  
 
 No Offer; RFP Procedures  
 For Public Use  
 
 
Page 29 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
 The issuance of this RFP does not give ris e to any future intention, commitment, offer , or 
obligation of USAC to enter into any kind of business relationship with any prospective O fferor .  
No contract for the development and supply of  BPO and/or Call Center services shall be formed 
unless and unti l a written definitive agreement for such development and purchase is executed by 
the selected Offeror and USAC. Following the execution of such a definitive agreement, the only 
obligations of the parties thereto will be those set forth therein.  For purposes of this paragraph, 
definitive agreements do not include any preliminary written document, or any oral agreement or 
course of conduct.  
 USAC and its representatives are free to conduct the RFP process as they determine in their sole discretion (includin g by negotiating with any other prospective O fferor s without prior notice to 
you or any other person).   USAC reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to change any of the RFP 
procedures at any time, to reject any and all proposals with respect to this R FP, and to terminate 
discussions and negotiations related to this RFP at any time and for any or no reason. USAC also 
reserves the right to negotiate with those responding, or with any other person or entity, an agreement on terms which, in USAC ’s sole jud gment, best serves its needs.  USAC may seek 
additional information from any potential O fferor  after the due date.  
 USAC, its affiliates , and its or their directors, officers, reviewers , employees , or representatives 
do not have any legal obligation or lia bility of any kind to you with respect to or arising from this 
RFP, whether by virtue of this RFP or any other written or oral expression with respect to the RFP or otherwise.  USAC and/or its professional advisors retain all right, title and interest, inc luding the copyright, in 
and to the materials provided by or on behalf of USAC or its professional advisors for the purposes 
of this RFP , and all rights therein are reserved.  All proposals submitted to USAC shall become 
the property of USAC and shall not be returned.  
 
 Confidential I nformation  
 Confidential Information is defined in Section 1 of the Master Services Agreement.   
 
 Conflicts  of Interest  
 Offeror’ s services are in support of USAC ’s administration of the USF, and as such Offeror will 
be expected to maintain the same neutrality, both in fact and in appearance, and avoid any conflict 
of interest or even the appearance of a conflict of interest.  To the extent that O fferor  or any O fferor  
staff has client, membership, financial or any other material a ffiliation with entities that participate 
in the federal USF in any respect, there may be actual, potential or apparent conflict(s) of interest.  Offerors must disclose in responses any potential conflict(s) of interest and the nature of any 
restriction proposed to cure the conflict(s).  USAC reserves the right to restrict participation and access to Confidential Information by O fferor s that in USAC ’s sole discretion pose a conflict of 
interest in the course of this procurement action and to require disclos ure of any potential conflicts 
of interest as a condition of receipt of Confidential I nformation. For Public Use  
 
 
Page 30 of 31 
 
Universal  Service  Administrative  Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request  for Proposals  (RFP) 
  
 Protocol  
 
Offerors should fully comply with this RFP or as otherwise communicated by USAC.  Each 
Offeror should ensure that all of its employees, reviewers, counsel, advisors or other 
representatives involved in the RFP process are fully aware and understand the procedures set forth in this RFP , and the obligations to be undertaken by the selected O fferor . 
 No Offeror personnel shall contact any USAC personnel  or FCC personnel in relation to this RFP, 
including USAC senior management and its Board of Directors, unless the USAC RFP primary contact has provided his or her prior written consent. During the period of this RFP, no contact related to this RFP should occur between any member of the O fferor’ s staff and any staff member  
of USAC, other than through the designated USAC RFP primary contact.  
 
 Publicity  
 Offeror shall  not make (or cause to be made) any public announcement relating to this RFP or 
USAC’ s undert aking of this evaluation process, and shall not otherwise publicize this RFP in any 
manner, unless prior written consent is obtained from the USAC RFP primary contact.  Additional 
obligations are set forth in Attachment 8 ( Confidentiality Agreement) . 
 
 Cost s and Expenses  
 Offeror is responsible for bearing all costs and expenses of preparing, submitting and (if requested 
by USAC) resubmitting its proposal, and any other prior or subsequent activity associated with 
this RFP, including the following, as applic able: evaluation of the proposal, O fferor  presentations, 
meeting attendance, due diligence and/or contract negotiations and fees , and expenses of any 
outside counsel or other advisors, regardless of whether or not USAC enters into an agreement 
with the O fferor. 
 
 Due Diligence; No Representations  
 The information provided by USAC as part of the RFP process is intended only as a preliminary background explanation.   This RFP does not purport to be all -inclusive or to contain all information 
that a n Offeror  may desire or deem to be material in connection with this RFP.  In all cases, 
Offerors should conduct their own investigation and analysis.  In particular, O fferor s should 
consider the advice of their own financial, legal, accounting, tax and other business a dvisors, and 
such other factors which they consider appropriate, in investigating and analyzing this RFP.  
 The information contained in this RFP is selective and subject to being updated, expanded, revised or amended by USAC.  
 USAC, its affiliates and its or their directors, officers, reviewers, employees or representatives have not made or do not make any express or implied representation or warranty, or accept any For Public Use 
 
 
Page 31 of 31 
 
Universal Service  Administrative Co. | Lifeline and ACP BPO and Call Center Services  | Request for Proposals (RFP) 
 responsibility for the information contained in, or provided in connection with, this RFP or  its 
fairness, accuracy or completeness.  None of them shall have any liability or otherwise to a O fferor  
relating to or resulting from use of USAC confidential information or for any errors therein or 
omissions therefrom (except as may otherwise be provid ed in a definitive written agreement signed 
by the parties).  O fferor s are responsible for making their own evaluation of information and data 
contained in, or provided in connection with, this RFP and in preparing and submitting their proposals.      This RFP is intended to provide O fferors with enough information to build their proposals, but it 
is the O fferor s’ responsibility to request any additional information that it reasonably believes it 
may need in connection with this RFP.  The Offeror selected by USAC must complete its due 
diligence prior to entering into a Contract with USAC.  Any c ontract between the parties will not 
contain provisions providing for post-signing due diligence or any related pricing adjustments.   
 ATTACHMENTS  
 
1. Attachment 1: Bid Sheet 
2. Attachment 2:  Statement of Work  
3. Attachment 3: Vendor Capability Checklist  
4. Attachment 4: Key Personnel  
5. Attachment 5: SLA Template   
6. Attachment 6: Volumes  
7. Attachment 7: Security  and Confidentiality Procedures  
8. Attachment 8: Confidentiality  Agreement  
9. Attachment 9: Transition Milestone  
10. Attachment 10: Master Services Agreement  
Note:  In order to receive  Attachment 7: Security  and Confidentiality Procedures, please e mail a 
signed copy of Attachment 8: Confidentially Agreement to Noor.Jalal@usac.org  and 
RFP@usac.org .  